EDITOR'S APOLOGY _and_ DEDICATION


_In order that there may be no misunderstanding as to the why and the
wherefore of this collection of tales it appears to me to be desirable
that I should at the outset state my reasons for acting as the medium
between the spirit of the late Baron Munchausen and the reading
public. In common with a large number of other great men in history

Baron Munchausen has suffered because he is not understood. I have

observed with wondering surprise the steady and constant growth of the

idea that Baron Munchausen was not a man of truth; that his statements

of fact were untrustworthy, and that as a realist he had no standing

whatsoever. Just how this misconception of the man's character has

arisen it would be difficult to say. Surely in his published writings

he shows that same lofty resolve to be true to life as he has seen it

that characterises the work of some of the high Apostles of Realism,

who are writing of the things that will teach future generations how

we of to-day ordered our goings-on. The note of veracity in Baron

Munchausen's early literary venturings rings as clear and as true

certainly as the similar note in the charming studies of Manx Realism

that have come to us of late years from the pen of Mr. Corridor

Walkingstick, of Gloomster Abbey and London. We all remember the glow

of satisfaction with which we read Mr. Walkingstick's great story of

the love of the clergyman, John Stress, for the charming little

heroine, Glory Partridge. Here was something at last that rang true.

The picture was painted in the boldest of colours, and, regardless of

consequences to himself, Mr. Walkingstick dared to be real when he

might have given rein to his imagination. Mr. Walkingstick was,

thereupon, lifted up by popular favour to the level of an

apostle--nay, he even admitted the soft impeachment--and now as a

moral teacher he is without a rival in the world of literature. Yet

the same age that accepts this man as a moral teacher, rejects Baron

Munchausen, who, in different manner perhaps, presented to the world

as true and life-like a picture of the conditions of his day as that

given to us by Mr. Walkingstick in his deservedly popular romance,

"Episcopalians I have Met." Of course, I do not claim that Baron

Munchausen's stories in bulk or in specified instances, have the

literary vigour that is so marked a quality of the latter-day writer,

but the point I do wish to urge is that to accept the one as a

veracious chronicler of his time and to reject the other as one who

indulges his pen in all sorts of grotesque vagaries, without proper

regard for the facts, is a great injustice to the man of other times.

The question arises, _why_ is this? How has this wrong upon the worthy

realist of the eighteenth century been perpetrated? Is it an

intentional or an unwitting wrong? I prefer to believe that it is

based upon ignorance of the Baron's true quality, due to the fact that

his works are rarely to be found within the reach of the public: in

some cases, because of the failure of librarians to comprehend his

real motives, his narratives are excluded from Public and

Sunday-School libraries; and because of their extreme age, they are

not easily again brought into vogue. I have, therefore, accepted the

office of intermediary between the Baron and the readers of the

present day, in order that his later work, which, while it shows to a

marked degree the decadence of his literary powers, may yet serve to

demonstrate to the readers of my own time how favourably he compares

with some of the literary idols of to-day, in the simple matter of

fidelity to fact. If these stories which follow shall serve to

rehabilitate Baron Munchausen as a lover and practitioner of the arts

of Truth, I shall not have made the sacrifice of my time in vain. If

they fail of this purpose I shall still have the satisfaction of

knowing that I have tried to render a service to an honest and

defenceless man._



_Meanwhile I dedicate this volume, with sentiments of the highest

regard, to that other great realist_



                      MR. CORRIDOR WALKINGSTICK



                                 _of_



                           GLOOMSTER ABBEY



                               J. K. B.









Contents





     I. I Encounter the Old Gentleman

    II. The Sporting Tour of Mr. Munchausen

   III. Three Months in a Balloon

    IV. Some Hunting Stories for Children

     V. The Story of Jang

    VI. He Tells the Twins of Fire-Works

   VII. Saved by a Magic Lantern

  VIII. An Adventure in the Desert

    IX. Decoration Day in the Cannibal Islands

     X. Mr. Munchausen's Adventure with a Shark

    XI. The Baron as a Runner

   XII. Mr. Munchausen Meets His Match

  XIII. Wriggletto

   XIV. The Poetic June-Bug, Together with Some

          Remarks on the Gillyhooly Bird

    XV. A Lucky Stroke









List of Illustrations





  Portrait of Mr. Munchausen

  "There was the whale, drawn by magnetic influence to the

        side of _The Lyre_"

  "As their bullets got to their highest point and began to

        drop back, I reached out and caught them"

  "I got nearer and nearer my haven of safety, the bellowing

        beasts snorting with rage as they followed"

  "Jang buzzed over and sat on his back, putting his sting

        where it would do the most good"

  "Out of what appeared to be a clear sky came the most

        extraordinary rain storm you ever saw"

  "'I am your slave,' he replied to my greeting, kneeling

        before me, 'I yield all to you'"

  "I reached the giraffe, raised myself to his back, crawled

        along his neck and dropped fainting into the tree"

  "They were celebrating Decoration Day, strewing flowers on

        the graves of departed missionaries"

  "I laughed in the poor disappointed thing's face, and with a

        howl of despair he rushed back into the sea"

  "This brought my speed down ten minutes to the mile which

        made it safe for me to run into a haystack"

  "At the first whoop Mr. Bear jumped ten feet and fell over

        backward on the floor"

  "He used to wind his tail about a fan and he'd wave it to

        and fro by the hour"

  "Most singular of all was the fact that, consciously or

        unconsciously, the insect had butted out a verse"

  "Again I swung my red-flagged brassey in front of the angry

        creature's face, and what I had hoped for followed"









MR. MUNCHAUSEN



AN ACCOUNT OF HIS RECENT ADVENTURES









I



I ENCOUNTER THE OLD GENTLEMAN





There are moments of supreme embarrassment in the lives of persons

given to veracity,--indeed it has been my own unusual experience in

life that the truth well stuck to is twice as hard a proposition as a

lie so obvious that no one is deceived by it at the outset. I cannot

quite agree with my friend, Caddy Barlow, who says that in a tight

place it is better to lie at once and be done with it than to tell the

truth which will need forty more truths to explain it, but I must

confess that in my forty years of absolute and conscientious devotion

to truth I have found myself in holes far deeper than any my most

mendacious of friends ever got into. I do not propose, however, to

desert at this late hour the Goddess I have always worshipped because

she leads me over a rough and rocky road, and whatever may be the

hardships involved in my wooing I intend to the very end to remain the

ever faithful slave of Mademoiselle Veracité. All of which I state

here in prefatory mood, and in order, in so far as it is possible for

me to do so, to disarm the incredulous and sniffy reader who may be

inclined to doubt the truth of my story of how the manuscript of the

following pages came into my possession. I am quite aware that to some

the tale will appear absolutely and intolerably impossible. I know

that if any other than I told it to me I should not believe it. Yet

despite these drawbacks the story is in all particulars, essential and

otherwise, absolutely truthful.



The facts are briefly these:



It was not, to begin with, a dark and dismal evening. The snow was not

falling silently, clothing a sad and gloomy world in a mantle of

white, and over the darkling moor a heavy mist was not rising, as is

so frequently the case. There was no soul-stirring moaning of bitter

winds through the leafless boughs; so far as I was aware nothing

soughed within twenty miles of my bailiwick; and my dog, lying before

a blazing log fire in my library, did not give forth an occasional

growl of apprehension, denoting the presence or approach of an uncanny

visitor from other and mysterious realms: and for two good reasons.

The first reason is that it was midsummer when the thing happened, so

that a blazing log fire in my library would have been an extravagance

as well as an anachronism. The second is that I have no dog. In fact

there was nothing unusual, or uncanny in the whole experience. It

happened to be a bright and somewhat too sunny July day, which is not

an unusual happening along the banks of the Hudson. You could see the

heat, and if anything had soughed it could only have been the mercury

in my thermometer. This I must say clicked nervously against the top

of the glass tube and manifested an extraordinary desire to climb

higher than the length of the tube permitted. Incidentally I may add,

even if it be not believed, that the heat was so intense that the

mercury actually did raise the whole thermometer a foot and a half

above the mantel-shelf, and for two mortal hours, from midday until

two by the Monastery Clock, held it suspended there in mid-air with no

visible means of support. Not a breath of air was stirring, and the

only sounds heard were the expanding creaks of the beams of my house,

which upon that particular day increased eight feet in width and

assumed a height which made it appear to be a three instead of a two

story dwelling. There was little work doing in the house. The children

played about in their bathing suits, and the only other active factor

in my life of the moment was our hired man who was kept busy in the

cellar pouring water on the furnace coal to keep it from spontaneously

combusting.



We had just had luncheon, burning our throats with the iced tea and

with considerable discomfort swallowing the simmering cold roast

filet, which we had to eat hastily before the heat of the day

transformed it into smoked beef. My youngest boy Willie perspired so

copiously that we seriously thought of sending for a plumber to solder

up his pores, and as for myself who have spent three summers of my

life in the desert of Sahara in order to rid myself of nervous chills

to which I was once unhappily subject, for the first time in my life I

was impelled to admit that it was intolerably warm. And then the

telephone bell rang.



"Great Scott!" I cried, "Who in thunder do you suppose wants to play

golf on a day like this?"--for nowadays our telephone is used for no

other purpose than the making or the breaking of golf engagements.



"Me," cried my eldest son, whose grammar is not as yet on a par with

his activity. "I'll go."



The boy shot out of the dining room and ran to the telephone,

returning in a few moments with the statement that a gentleman with a

husky voice whose name was none of his business wished to speak with

me on a matter of some importance to myself.



I was loath to go. My friends the book agents had recently acquired

the habit of approaching me over the telephone, and I feared that here

was another nefarious attempt to foist a thirty-eight volume tabloid

edition of _The World's Worst Literature_ upon me. Nevertheless I

wisely determined to respond.



"Hello," I said, placing my lips against the rubber cup. "Hello there,

who wants 91162 Nepperhan?"



"Is that you?" came the answering question, and, as my boy had

indicated, in a voice whose chief quality was huskiness.



"I guess so," I replied facetiously;--"It was this morning, but the

heat has affected me somewhat, and I don't feel as much like myself as

I might. What can I do for you?"



"Nothing, but you can do a lot for yourself," was the astonishing

answer. "Pretty hot for literary work, isn't it?" the voice added

sympathetically.



"Very," said I. "Fact is I can't seem to do anything these days but

perspire."



"That's what I thought; and when you can't work ruin stares you in the

face, eh? Now I have a manuscript--"



"Oh Lord!" I cried. "Don't. There are millions in the same fix. Even

my cook writes."



"Don't know about that," he returned instantly. "But I do know that

there's millions in my manuscript. And you can have it for the asking.

How's that for an offer?"



"Very kind, thank you," said I. "What's the nature of your story?"



"It's extremely good-natured," he answered promptly.



I laughed. The twist amused me.



"That isn't what I meant exactly," said I, "though it has some bearing

on the situation. Is it a Henry James dandy, or does it bear the mark

of Caine? Is it realism or fiction?"



"Realism," said he. "Fiction isn't in my line."



"Well, I'll tell you," I replied; "you send it to me by post and I'll

look it over. If I can use it I will."



"Can't do it," said he. "There isn't any post-office where I am."



"What?" I cried. "No post-office? Where in Hades are you?"



"Gehenna," he answered briefly. "The transportation between your

country and mine is all one way," he added. "If it wasn't the

population here would diminish."



"Then how the deuce am I to get hold of your stuff?" I demanded.



"That's easy. Send your stenographer to the 'phone and I'll dictate

it," he answered.



The novelty of the situation appealed to me. Even if my new found

acquaintance were some funny person nearer at hand than Gehenna trying

to play a practical joke upon me, still it might be worth while to get

hold of the story he had to tell. Hence I agreed to his proposal.



"All right, sir," said I. "I'll do it. I'll have him here to-morrow

morning at nine o'clock sharp. What's your number? I'll ring you up."



"Never mind that," he replied. "I'm merely a tapster on your wires.

I'll ring _you_ up as soon as I've had breakfast and then we can get

to work."



"Very good," said I. "And may I ask your name?"



"Certainly," he answered. "I'm Munchausen."



"What? The Baron?" I roared, delighted.



"Well--I used to be Baron," he returned with a tinge of sadness in his

voice, "but here in Gehenna we are all on an equal footing. I'm plain

Mr. Munchausen of Hades now. But that's a detail. Don't forget. Nine

o'clock. Good-bye."



"Wait a moment, Baron," I cried. "How about the royalties on this

book?"



"Keep 'em for yourself," he replied. "We have money to burn over here.

You are welcome to all the earthly rights of the book. I'm satisfied

with the returns on the Asbestos Edition, already in its 468th

thousand. Good-bye."



There was a rattle as of the hanging up of the receiver, a short sharp

click and a ring, and I realised that he had gone.



The next morning in response to a telegraphic summons my stenographer

arrived and when I explained the situation to him he was incredulous,

but orders were orders and he remained. I could see, however, that as

nine o'clock approached he grew visibly nervous, which indicated that

he half believed me anyhow, and when at nine to the second the sharp

ring of the 'phone fell upon our ears he jumped as if he had been

shot.



"Hello," said I again. "That you, Baron?"



"The same," the voice replied. "Stenographer ready?"



"Yes," said I.



The stenographer walked to the desk, placed the receiver at his ear,

and with trembling voice announced his presence. There was a response

of some kind, and then more calmly he remarked, "Fire ahead, Mr.

Munchausen," and began to write rapidly in short-hand.



Two days later he handed me a type-written copy of the following

stories. The reader will observe that they are in the form of

interviews, and it should be stated here that they appeared originally

in the columns of the Sunday edition of the _Gehenna Gazette_, a

publication of Hades which circulates wholly among the best people of

that country, and which, if report saith truly, would not print a line

which could not be placed in the hands of children, and to whose

columns such writers as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Ben Jonson, Jonah and

Ananias are frequent contributors.



Indeed, on the statement of Mr. Munchausen, all the interviews herein

set forth were between himself as the principal and the Hon. Henry B.

Ananias as reporter, or were scrupulously edited by the latter before

being published.









II



THE SPORTING TOUR OF MR. MUNCHAUSEN





"Good morning, Mr. Munchausen," said the interviewer of the _Gehenna

Gazette_ entering the apartment of the famous traveller at the Hotel

Deville, where the late Baron had just arrived from his sporting tour

in the Blue Hills of Cimmeria and elsewhere.



"The interests of truth, my dear Ananias," replied the Baron, grasping

me cordially by the hand, "require that I should state it as my

opinion that it is not a good morning. In fact, my good friend, it is

a very bad morning. Can you not see that it is raining cats and dogs

without?"



"Sir," said I with a bow, "I accept the spirit of your correction but

not the letter. It is raining indeed, sir, as you suggest, but having

passed through it myself on my way hither I can personally testify

that it is raining rain, and not a single cat or canine has, to my

knowledge, as yet fallen from the clouds to the parched earth,

although I am informed that down upon the coast an elephant and three

cows have fallen upon one of the summer hotels and irreparably damaged

the roof."



Mr. Munchausen laughed.



"It is curious, Ananias," said he, "what sticklers for the truth you

and I have become."



"It is indeed, Munchausen," I returned. "The effects of this climate

are working wonders upon us. And it is just as well. You and I are

outclassed by these twentieth century prevaricators concerning whom

late arrivals from the upper world tell such strange things. They tell

me that lying has become a business and is no longer ranked among the

Arts or Professions."



"Ah me!" sighed the Baron with a retrospective look in his eye, "lying

isn't what it used to be, Ananias, in your days and mine. I fear it

has become one of the lost arts."



"I have noticed it myself, my friend, and only last night I observed

the same thing to my well beloved Sapphira, who was lamenting the

transparency of the modern lie, and said that lying to-day is no

better than the truth. In our day a prevarication had all of the

opaque beauty of an opalescent bit of glass, whereas to-day in the

majority of cases it is like a great vulgar plate-glass window,

through which we can plainly see the ugly truths that lie behind. But,

sir, I am here to secure from you not a treatise upon the lost art of

lying, but some idea of the results of your sporting tour. You fished,

and hunted, and golfed, and doubtless did other things. You, of

course, had luck and made the greatest catch of the season; shot all

the game in sight, and won every silver, gold and pewter golf mug in

all creation?"



"You speak truly, Ananias," returned Mr. Munchausen. "My luck _was_

wonderful--even for one who has been so singularly fortunate as I. I

took three tons of speckled beauties with one cast of an ordinary

horse whip in the Blue Hills, and with nothing but a silken line and a

minnow hook landed upon the deck of my steam yacht a whale of most

tremendous proportions; I shot game of every kind in great abundance

and in my golf there was none to whom I could not give with ease seven

holes in every nine and beat him out."



"Seven?" said I, failing to see how the ex-Baron could be right.



"Seven," said he complacently. "Seven on the first, and seven on the

second nine; fourteen in all of the eighteen holes."



"But," I cried, "I do not see how that could be. With fourteen holes

out of the eighteen given to your opponent even if you won all the

rest you still would be ten down."



"True, by ordinary methods of calculation," returned the Baron, "but I

got them back on a technicality, which I claim is a new and valuable

discovery in the game. You see it is impossible to play more than one

hole at a time, and I invariably proved to the Greens Committee that

in taking fourteen holes at once my opponent violated the physical

possibilities of the situation. In every case the point was accepted

as well taken, for if we allow golfers to rise above physical

possibilities the game is gone. The integrity of the Card is the soul

of Golf," he added sententiously.



"Tell me of the whale," said I, simply. "You landed a whale of large

proportions on the deck of your yacht with a simple silken line and a

minnow hook."



"Well it's a tough story," the Baron replied, handing me a cigar. "But

it is true, Ananias, true to the last word. I was fishing for eels.

Sitting on the deck of _The Lyre_ one very warm afternoon in the early

stages of my trip, I baited a minnow hook and dropped it overboard. It

was the roughest day at sea I had ever encountered. The waves were

mountain high, and it is the sad fact that one of our crew seated in

the main-top was drowned with the spray of the dashing billows.

Fortunately for myself, directly behind my deck chair, to which I was

securely lashed, was a powerful electric fan which blew the spray away

from me, else I too might have suffered the same horrid fate. Suddenly

there came a tug on my line. I was half asleep at the time and let the

line pay out involuntarily, but I was wide-awake enough to know that

something larger than an eel had taken hold of the hook. I had hooked

either a Leviathan or a derelict. Caution and patience, the chief

attributes of a good angler were required. I hauled the line in until

it was taut. There were a thousand yards of it out, and when it

reached the point of tensity, I gave orders to the engineers to steam

closer to the object at the other end. We steamed in five hundred

yards, I meanwhile hauling in my line. Then came another tug and I let

out ten yards. 'Steam closer,' said I. 'Three hundred yards

sou-sou-west by nor'-east.' The yacht obeyed on the instant. I called

the Captain and let him feel the line. 'What do you think it is?' said

I. He pulled a half dozen times. 'Feels like a snag,' he said, 'but

seein' as there ain't no snags out here, I think it must be a fish.'

'What kind?' I asked. I could not but agree that he was better

acquainted with the sea and its denizens than I. 'Well,' he replied,

'it is either a sea serpent or a whale.' At the mere mention of the

word whale I was alert. I have always wanted to kill a whale.

'Captain,' said I, 'can't you tie an anchor onto a hawser, and bait

the flukes with a boa constrictor and make sure of him?' He looked at

me contemptuously. 'Whales eats fish,' said he, 'and they don't bite

at no anchors. Whales has brains, whales has.' 'What shall we do?' I

asked. 'Steam closer,' said the Captain, and we did so."



Munchausen took a long breath and for the moment was silent.



"Well?" said I.



"Well, Ananias," said he. "We resolved to wait. As the Captain said to

me, 'Fishin' is waitin'.' So we waited. 'Coax him along,' said the

Captain. 'How can we do it?' I asked. 'By kindness,' said he. 'Treat

him gently, persuasive-like and he'll come.' We waited four days and

nobody moved and I grew weary of coaxing. 'We've got to do something,'

said I to the Captain. 'Yes,' said he, 'Let's _make_ him move. He

doesn't seem to respond to kindness.' 'But how?' I cried. 'Give him an

electric shock,' said the Captain. 'Telegraph him his mother's sick

and may be it'll move him.' 'Can't you get closer to him?' I demanded,

resenting his facetious manner. 'I can, but it will scare him off,'

replied the Captain. So we turned all our batteries on the sea. The

dynamo shot forth its bolts and along about four o'clock in the

afternoon there was the whale drawn by magnetic influence to the side

of _The Lyre_. He was a beauty, Ananias," Munchausen added with

enthusiasm. "You never saw such a whale. His back was as broad as the

deck of an ocean steamer and in his length he exceeded the dimensions

of _The Lyre_ by sixty feet."



"And still you got him on deck?" I asked,--I, Ananias, who can stand

something in the way of an exaggeration.



"Yes," said Munchausen, lighting his cigar, which had gone out.

"Another storm came up and we rolled and rolled and rolled, until I

thought _The Lyre_ was going to capsize."



"But weren't you sea-sick?" I asked.



"Didn't have a chance to be," said Munchausen. "I was thinking of the

whale all the time. Finally there came a roll in which we went

completely under, and with a slight pulling on the line the whale was

landed by the force of the wave and laid squarely upon the deck."



"Great Sapphira!" said I. "But you just said he was wider and longer

than the yacht!"



[Illustration: "There was the whale drawn by magnetic influence to the

side of _The Lyre_." _Chapter II._]



"He was," sighed Munchausen. "He landed on the deck and by sheer force

of his weight the yacht went down under him. I swam ashore and the

whole crew with me. The next day Mr. Whale floated in strangled. He'd

swallowed the thousand yards of line and it got so tangled in his

tonsils that it choked him to death. Come around next week and I'll

give you a couple of pounds of whalebone for Mrs. Ananias, and all the

oil you can carry."



I thanked the old gentleman for his kind offer and promised to avail

myself of it, although as a newspaper man it is against my principles

to accept gifts from public men.



"It was great luck, Baron," said I. "Or at least it would have been if

you hadn't lost your yacht."



"That was great luck too," he observed nonchalantly. "It cost me ten

thousand dollars a month keeping that yacht in commission. Now she's

gone I save all that. Why it's like finding money in the street,

Ananias. She wasn't worth more than fifty thousand dollars, and in six

months I'll be ten thousand ahead."



I could not but admire the cheerful philosophy of the man, but then I

was not surprised. Munchausen was never the sort of man to let little

things worry him.



"But that whale business wasn't a circumstance to my catch of three

tons of trout with a single cast of a horse-whip in the Blue Hills,"

said the Baron after a few moments of meditation, during which I could

see that he was carefully marshalling his facts.



"I never heard of its equal," said I. "You must have used a derrick."



"No," he replied suavely. "Nothing of the sort. It was the simplest

thing in the world. It was along about five o'clock in the afternoon

when with my three guides and my valet I drove up the winding roadway

of Great Sulphur Mountain on my way to the Blue Mountain House where I

purposed to put up for a few days. I had one of those big mountain

wagons with a covered top to it such as the pioneers used on the

American plains, with six fine horses to the fore. I held the reins

myself, since we were in the midst of a terrific thunderstorm and I

felt safer when I did my own driving. All the flaps of the leathern

cover were let down at the sides and at the back, and were securely

fastened. The roads were unusually heavy, and when we came to the last

great hill before the lake all but I were walking, as a measure of

relief to the horses. Suddenly one of the horses balked right in the

middle of the ascent, and in a moment of impatience I gave him a

stinging flick with my whip, when like a whirlwind the whole six

swerved to one side and started on a dead run upward. The jolt and the

unexpected swerving of the wagon threw me from my seat and I landed

clear of the wheels in the soft mud of the roadway, fortunately

without injury. When I arose the team was out of sight and we had to

walk the remainder of the distance to the hotel. Imagine our surprise

upon arriving there to find the six panting steeds and the wagon

standing before the main entrance to the hotel dripping as though they

had been through the Falls of Niagara, and, would you believe it,

Ananias, inside that leather cover of the wagon, packed as tightly as

sardines, were no less than three thousand trout, not one of them

weighing less than a pound and some of them getting as high as four.

The whole catch weighed a trifle over six thousand pounds."



"Great Heavens, Baron," I cried. "Where the dickens did they come

from?"



"That's what I asked myself," said the Baron easily. "It seemed

astounding at first glance, but investigation showed it after all to

be a very simple proposition. The runaways after reaching the top of

the hill turned to the left, and clattered on down toward the bridge

over the inlet to the lake. The bridge broke beneath their weight and

the horses soon found themselves struggling in the water. The harness

was strong and the wagon never left them. They had to swim for it, and

I am told by a small boy who was fishing on the lake at the time that

they swam directly across it, pulling the wagon after them. Naturally

with its open front and confined back and sides the wagon acted as a

sort of drag-net and when the opposite shore was gained, and the wagon

was pulled ashore, it was found to have gathered in all the fish that

could not get out of the way."



The Baron resumed his cigar, and I sat still eyeing the ample pattern

of the drawing-room carpet.



"Pretty good catch for an afternoon, eh?" he said in a minute.



"Yes," said I. "Almost too good, Baron. Those horses must have swam

like the dickens to get over so quickly. You would think the trout

would have had time to escape."



"Oh I presume one or two of them did," said Munchausen. "But the

majority of them couldn't. The horses were all fast, record-breakers

anyhow. I never hire a horse that isn't."



And with that I left the old gentleman and walked blushing back to the

office. I don't doubt for an instant the truth of the Baron's story,

but somehow or other I feel that in writing it my reputation is in

some measure at stake.



    NOTE--Mr. Munchausen, upon request of the Editor of the

    _Gehenna Gazette_ to write a few stories of adventure for his

    Imp's page, conducted by Sapphira, contributed the tales which

    form the substance of several of the following chapters.









III



THREE MONTHS IN A BALLOON





Mr. Munchausen was not handsome, but the Imps liked him very much, he

was so full of wonderful reminiscences, and was always willing to tell

anybody that would listen, all about himself. To the Heavenly Twins he

was the greatest hero that had ever lived. Napoleon Bonaparte, on Mr.

Munchausen's own authority, was not half the warrior that he, the late

Baron had been, nor was Cæsar in his palmiest days, one-quarter so

wise or so brave. How old the Baron was no one ever knew, but he had

certainly lived long enough to travel the world over, and stare every

kind of death squarely in the face without flinching. He had fought

Zulus, Indians, tigers, elephants--in fact, everything that fights,

the Baron had encountered, and in every contest he had come out

victorious. He was the only man the children had ever seen that had

lost three legs in battle and then had recovered them after the fight

was over; he was the only visitor to their house that had been lost in

the African jungle and wandered about for three months without food or

shelter, and best of all he was, on his own confession, the most

truthful narrator of extraordinary tales living. The youngsters had to

ask the Baron a question only, any one, it mattered not what it

was--to start him off on a story of adventure, and as he called upon

the Twins' father once a month regularly, the children were not long

in getting together a collection of tales beside which the most

exciting episodes in history paled into insignificant commonplaces.



"Uncle Munch," said the Twins one day, as they climbed up into the

visitor's lap and disarranged his necktie, "was you ever up in a

balloon?"



"Only once," said the Baron calmly. "But I had enough of it that time

to last me for a lifetime."



"Was you in it for long?" queried the Twins, taking the Baron's watch

out of his pocket and flinging it at Cerberus, who was barking outside

of the window.



"Well, it seemed long enough," the Baron answered, putting his

pocket-book in the inside pocket of his vest where the Twins could not

reach it. "Three months off in the country sleeping all day long and

playing tricks all night seems a very short time, but three months in

a balloon and the constant centre of attack from every source is too

long for comfort."



"Were you up in the air for three whole months?" asked the Twins,

their eyes wide open with astonishment.



"All but two days," said the Baron. "For two of those days we rested

in the top of a tree in India. The way of it was this: I was always,

as you know, a great favourite with the Emperor Napoleon, of France,

and when he found himself involved in a war with all Europe, he

replied to one of his courtiers who warned him that his army was not

in condition: 'Any army is prepared for war whose commander-in-chief

numbers Baron Munchausen among his advisers. Let me have Munchausen at

my right hand and I will fight the world.' So they sent for me and as

I was not very busy I concluded to go and assist the French, although

the allies and I were also very good friends. I reasoned it out this

way: In this fight the allies are the stronger. They do not need me.

Napoleon does. Fight for the weak, Munchausen, I said to myself, and

so I went. Of course, when I reached Paris I went at once to the

Emperor's palace and remained at his side until he took the field,

after which I remained behind for a few days to put things to rights

for the Imperial family. Unfortunately for the French, the King of

Prussia heard of my delay in going to the front, and he sent word to

his forces to intercept me on my way to join Napoleon at all hazards,

and this they tried to do. When I was within ten miles of the

Emperor's headquarters, I was stopped by the Prussians, and had it not

been that I had provided myself with a balloon for just such an

emergency, I should have been captured and confined in the King's

palace at Berlin, until the war was over.



"Foreseeing all this, I had brought with me a large balloon packed

away in a secret section of my trunk, and while my body-guard was

fighting with the Prussian troops sent to capture me, I and my valet

inflated the balloon, jumped into the car and were soon high up out of

the enemy's reach. They fired several shots at us, and one of them

would have pierced the balloon had I not, by a rare good shot, fired

my own rifle at the bullet, and hitting it squarely in the middle, as

is my custom, diverted it from its course, and so saved our lives.



"It had been my intention to sail directly over the heads of the

attacking party and drop down into Napoleon's camp the next morning,

but unfortunately for my calculations, a heavy wind came up in the

night and the balloon was caught by a northerly blast, and blown into

Africa, where, poised in the air directly over the desert of Sahara,

we encountered a dead calm, which kept us stalled up for two miserable

weeks."



"Why didn't you come down?" asked the Twins, "wasn't the elevator

running?"



"We didn't dare," explained the Baron, ignoring the latter part of the

question. "If we had we'd have wasted a great deal of our gas, and our

condition would have been worse than ever. As I told you we were

directly over the centre of the desert. There was no way of getting

out of it except by long and wearisome marches over the hot, burning

sands with the chances largely in favour of our never getting out

alive. The only thing to do was to stay just where we were and wait

for a favouring breeze. This we did, having to wait four mortal weeks

before the air was stirred."



"You said two weeks a minute ago, Uncle Munch," said the Twins

critically.



"Two? Hem! Well, yes it was two, now that I think of it. It's a

natural mistake," said the Baron stroking his mustache a little

nervously. "You see two weeks in a balloon over a vast desert of sand,

with nothing to do but whistle for a breeze, is equal to four weeks

anywhere else. That is, it seems so. Anyhow, two weeks or four,

whichever it was, the breeze came finally, and along about midnight

left us stranded again directly over an Arab encampment near Wady

Halfa. It was a more perilous position really, than the first, because

the moment the Arabs caught sight of us they began to make frantic

efforts to get us down. At first we simply laughed them to scorn and

made faces at them, because as far as we could see, we were safely out

of reach. This enraged them and they apparently made up their minds to

kill us if they could. At first their idea was to get us down alive

and sell us as slaves, but our jeers changed all that, and what should

they do but whip out a lot of guns and begin to pepper us.



"'I'll settle them in a minute,' I said to myself, and set about

loading my own gun. Would you believe it, I found that my last bullet

was the one with which I had saved the balloon from the Prussian

shot?"



"Mercy, how careless of you, Uncle Munch!" said one of the Twins.

"What did you do?"



"I threw out a bag of sand ballast so that the balloon would rise just

out of range of their guns, and then, as their bullets got to their

highest point and began to drop back, I reached out and caught them in

a dipper. Rather neat idea, eh? With these I loaded my own rifle and

shot every one of the hostile party with their own ammunition, and

when the last of the attacking Arabs dropped I found there were enough

bullets left to fill the empty sand bag again, so that the lost

ballast was not missed. In fact, there were enough of them in weight

to bring the balloon down so near to the earth that our anchor rope

dangled directly over the encampment, so that my valet and I, without

wasting any of our gas, could climb down and secure all the

magnificent treasures in rugs and silks and rare jewels these robbers

of the desert had managed to get together in the course of their

depredations. When these were placed in the car another breeze came

up, and for the rest of the time we drifted idly about in the heavens

waiting for a convenient place to land. In this manner we were blown

hither and yon for three months over land and sea, and finally we were

wrecked upon a tall tree in India, whence we escaped by means of a

convenient elephant that happened to come our way, upon which we rode

triumphantly into Calcutta. The treasures we had secured from the

Arabs, unfortunately, we had to leave behind us in the tree, where I

suppose they still are. I hope some day to go back and find them."



Here Mr. Munchausen paused for a moment to catch his breath. Then he

added with a sigh. "Of course, I went back to France immediately, but

by the time I reached Paris the war was over, and the Emperor was in

exile. I was too late to save him--though I think if he had lived some

sixty or seventy years longer I should have managed to restore his

throne, and Imperial splendour to him."



The Twins gazed into the fire in silence for a minute or two. Then one

of them asked:



"But what did you live on all that time, Uncle Munch?"



"Eggs," said the Baron. "Eggs and occasionally fish. My servant had

had the foresight when getting the balloon ready to include, among the

things put into the car, a small coop in which were six pet chickens I

owned, and without which I never went anywhere. These laid enough eggs

every day to keep us alive. The fish we caught when our balloon stood

over the sea, baiting our anchor with pieces of rubber gas pipe used

to inflate the balloon, and which looked very much like worms."



[Illustration: "As their bullets got to their highest point and began

to drop back, I reached out and caught them." _Chapter III._]



"But the chickens?" said the Twins. "What did they live on?"



The Baron blushed.



"I am sorry you asked that question," he said, his voice trembling

somewhat. "But I'll answer it if you promise never to tell anyone. It

was the only time in my life that I ever practised an intentional

deception upon any living thing, and I have always regretted it,

although our very lives depended upon it."



"What was it, Uncle Munch?" asked the Twins, awed to think that the

old warrior had ever deceived anyone.



"I took the egg shells and ground them into powder, and fed them to

the chickens. The poor creatures supposed it was corn-meal they were

getting," confessed the Baron. "I know it was mean, but what could I

do?"



"Nothing," said the Twins softly. "And we don't think it was so bad of

you after all. Many another person would have kept them laying eggs

until they starved, and then he'd have killed them and eaten them up.

You let them live."



"That may be so," said the Baron, with a smile that showed how

relieved his conscience was by the Twins' suggestion. "But I couldn't

do that you know, because they were pets. I had been brought up from

childhood with those chickens."



Then the Twins, jamming the Baron's hat down over his eyes, climbed

down from his lap and went to their play, strongly of the opinion

that, though a bold warrior, the Baron was a singularly kind,

soft-hearted man after all.









IV



SOME HUNTING STORIES FOR CHILDREN





The Heavenly Twins had been off in the mountains during their summer

holiday, and in consequence had seen very little of their good old

friend, Mr. Munchausen. He had written them once or twice, and they

had found his letters most interesting, especially that one in which

he told how he had killed a moose up in Maine with his Waterbury watch

spring, and I do not wonder that they marvelled at that, for it was

one of the most extraordinary happenings in the annals of the chase.

It seems, if his story is to be believed, and I am sure that none of

us who know him has ever had any reason to think that he would deceive

intentionally; it seems, I say, that he had gone to Maine for a week's

sport with an old army acquaintance of his, who had now become a guide

in that region. Unfortunately his rifle, of which he was very fond,

and with which his aim was unerring, was in some manner mislaid on the

way, and when they arrived in the woods they were utterly without

weapons; but Mr. Munchausen was not the man to be daunted by any such

trifle as that, particularly while his friend had an old army musket,

a relic of the war, stored away in the attic of his woodland domicile.



"Th' only trouble with that ar musket," said the old guide, "ain't so

much that she won't shoot straight, nor that she's got a kick onto her

like an unbroke mule. What I'm most afeard 'on about your shootin'

with her ain't that I think she'll bust neither, for the fact is we

ain't got nothin' for to bust her with, seein' as how ammynition is

skeerce. I got powder, an' I got waddin', but I ain't got no shot."



"That doesn't make any difference," the Baron replied. "We can make

the shot. Have you got any plumbing in the camp? If you have, rip it

out, and I'll melt up a water-pipe into bullets."



"No, sir," retorted the old man. "Plumbin' is one of the things I came

here to escape from."



"Then," said the Baron, "I'll use my watch for ammunition. It is only

a three-dollar watch and I can spare it."



With this determination, Mr. Munchausen took his watch to pieces, an

ordinary time-piece of the old-fashioned kind, and, to make a long

story short, shot for several days with the component parts of that

useful affair rammed down into the barrel of the old musket. With the

stem-winding ball he killed an eagle; with pieces of the back cover

chopped up to a fineness of medium-sized shot he brought down several

other birds, but the great feat of all was when he started for moose

with nothing but the watch-spring in the barrel of the gun. Having

rolled it up as tight as he could, fastened it with a piece of twine,

and rammed it well into the gun, he set out to find the noble animal

upon whose life he had designs. After stalking the woods for several

hours, he came upon the tracks which told him that his prey was not

far off, and in a short while he caught sight of a magnificent

creature, his huge antlers held proudly up and his great eyes full of

defiance.



For a moment the Baron hesitated. The idea of destroying so beautiful

an animal seemed to be abhorrent to his nature, which, warrior-like as

he is, has something of the tenderness of a woman about it. A second

glance at the superb creature, however, changed all that, for the

Baron then saw that to shoot to kill was necessary, for the beast was

about to force a fight in which the hunter himself would be put upon

the defensive.



"I won't shoot you through the head, my beauty," he said, softly, "nor

will I puncture your beautiful coat with this load of mine, but I'll

kill you in a new way."



With this he pulled the trigger. The powder exploded, the string

binding the long black spring into a coil broke, and immediately the

strip of steel shot forth into the air, made directly toward the neck

of the rushing moose, and coiling its whole sinuous length tightly

about the doomed creature's throat strangled him to death.



As the Twins' father said, a feat of that kind entitled the Baron to a

high place in fiction at least, if not in history itself. The Twins

were very much wrought up over the incident, particularly, when one

too-smart small imp who was spending the summer at the same hotel

where they were said that he didn't believe it,--but he was an imp who

had never seen a cheap watch, so how should he know anything about

what could be done with a spring that cannot be wound up by a great

strong man in less than ten minutes?



As for the Baron he was very modest about the achievement, for when he

first appeared at the Twins' home after their return he had actually

forgotten all about it, and, in fact, could not recall the incident at

all, until Diavolo brought him his own letter, when, of course, the

whole matter came back to him.



"It wasn't so very wonderful, anyhow," said the Baron. "I should not

think, for instance, of bragging about any such thing as that. It was

a simple affair all through."



"And what did you do with the moose's antlers?" asked Angelica. "I

hope you brought 'em home with you, because I'd like to see 'em."



"I wanted to," said the Baron, stroking the Twins' soft brown locks

affectionately. "I wanted to bring them home for your father to use as

a hat rack, dear, but they were too large. When I had removed them

from the dead animal, I found them so large that I could not get them

out of the forest, they got so tangled up in the trees. I should have

had to clear a path twenty feet wide and seven miles long to get them

even as far as my friend's hut, and after that they would have had to

be carried thirty miles through the woods to the express office."



"I guess it's just as well after all," said Diavolo. "If they were as

big as all that, Papa would have had to build a new house to get 'em

into."



"Exactly," said the Baron. "Exactly. That same idea occurred to me,

and for that reason I concluded not to go to the trouble of cutting

away those miles of trees. The antlers would have made a very

expensive present for your father to receive in these hard times."



"It was a good thing you had that watch," the Twins observed, after

thinking over the Baron's adventure. "If you hadn't had that you

couldn't have killed the moose."



"Very likely not," said the Baron, "unless I had been able to do as I

did in India thirty years ago at a man hunt."



"What?" cried the Twins. "Do they hunt men in India?"?



"That all depends, my dears," replied the Baron. "It all depends upon

what you mean by the word they. Men don't hunt men, but animals, great

wild beasts sometimes hunt them, and it doesn't often happen that the

men escape. In the particular man hunt I refer to I was the creature

that was being hunted, and I've had a good deal of sympathy for foxes

ever since. This was a regular fox hunt in a way, although I was the

fox, and a herd of elephants were the huntsmen."



"How queer," said Diavolo, unscrewing one of the Baron's shirt studs

to see if he would fall apart.



"Not half so queer as my feelings when I realised my position," said

the Baron with a shake of his head. "I was frightened half to death.

It seemed to me that I'd reached the end of my tether at last. I was

studying the fauna and flora of India, in a small Indian village,

known as ah--what was the name of that town! Ah--something like

Rathabad--no, that isn't quite it--however, one name does as well as

another in India. It was a good many miles from Calcutta, and I'd been

living there about three months. The village lay in a small valley

between two ranges of hills, none of them very high. On the other side

of the westerly hills was a great level stretch of country upon which

herds of elephants used to graze. Out of this rose these hills, very

precipitously, which was a very good thing for the people in the

valley, else those elephants would have come over and played havoc

with their homes and crops. To me the plains had a great fascination,

and I used to wander over them day after day in search of new

specimens for my collection of plants and flowers, never thinking of

the danger I ran from an encounter with these elephants, who were very

ferocious and extremely jealous of the territory they had come through

years of occupation to regard as their own. So it happened, that one

day, late in the afternoon, I was returning from an expedition over

the plains, and, as I had found a large number of new specimens, I was

feeling pretty happy. I whistled loudly as I walked, when suddenly

coming to a slight undulation in the plain what should I see before me

but a herd of sixty-three elephants, some eating, some thinking, some

romping, and some lying asleep on the soft turf. Now, if I had come

quietly, of course, I could have passed them unobserved, but as I told

you I was whistling. I forget what the tune was, The Marsellaise or

Die Wacht Am Rhein, or maybe Tommie Atkins, which enrages the

elephants very much, being the national anthem of the British invader.

At any rate, whatever the tune was it attracted the attention of the

elephants, and then their sport began. The leader lifted his trunk

high in the air, and let out a trumpet blast that echoed back from the

cliff three miles distant. Instantly every elephant was on the alert.

Those that had been sleeping awoke, and sprang to their feet. Those

that had been at play stopped in their romp, and under the leadership

of the biggest brute of the lot they made a rush for me. I had no gun;

nothing except my wits and my legs with which to defend myself, so I

naturally began to use the latter until I could get the former to

work. It was nip and tuck. They could run faster than I could, and I

saw in an instant that without stratagem I could not hope to reach a

place of safety. As I have said, the cliff, which rose straight up

from the plain like a stone-wall, was three miles away, nor was there

any other spot in which I could find a refuge. It occurred to me as I

ran that if I ran in circles I could edge up nearer to the cliff all

the time, and still keep my pursuers at a distance for the simple

reason that an elephant being more or less unwieldy cannot turn as

rapidly as a man can, so I kept running in circles. I could run around

my short circle in less time than the enemy could run around his

larger one, and in this manner I got nearer and nearer my haven of

safety, the bellowing beasts snorting with rage as they followed.

Finally, when I began to see that I was tolerably safe, another idea

occurred to me, which was that if I could manage to kill those huge

creatures the ivory I could get would make my fortune. But how! That

was the question. Well, my dearly beloved Imps, I admit that I am a

fast runner, but I am also a fast thinker, and in less than two

minutes I had my plan arranged. I stopped short when about two hundred

feet from the cliff, and waited until the herd was fifty feet away.

Then I turned about and ran with all my might up to within two feet of

the cliff, and then turning sharply to the left ran off in that

direction. The elephants, thinking they had me, redoubled their speed,

but failed to notice that I had turned, so quickly was that movement

executed. They failed likewise to notice the cliff, as I had intended.

The consequence was the whole sixty-three of them rushed head first,

bang! with all their force, into the rock. The hill shook with the

force of the blow and the sixty-three elephants fell dead. They had

simply butted their brains out."



[Illustration: "I got nearer and nearer my haven of safety, the

bellowing beasts snorting with rage as they followed." _Chapter IV._]



Here the Baron paused and pulled vigourously on his cigar, which had

almost gone out.



"That was fine," said the Twins.



"What a narrow escape it was for you, Uncle Munch," said Diavolo.



"Very true," said the great soldier rising, as a signal that his story

was done. "In fact you might say that I had sixty-three narrow

escapes, one for each elephant."



"But what became of the ivory?" asked Angelica.



"Oh, as for that!" said the Baron, with a sigh, "I was disappointed in

that. They turned out to be all young elephants, and they had lost

their first teeth. Their second teeth hadn't grown yet. I got only

enough ivory to make one paper cutter, which is the one I gave your

father for Christmas last year."



Which may account for the extraordinary interest the Twins have taken

in their father's paper cutter ever since.









V



THE STORY OF JANG





"Did you ever own a dog, Baron Munchausen?" asked the reporter of the

_Gehenna Gazette_, calling to interview the eminent nobleman during

Dog Show Week in Cimmeria.



"Yes, indeed I have," said the Baron, "I fancy I must have owned as

many as a hundred dogs in my life. To be sure some of the dogs were

iron and brass, but I was just as fond of them as if they had been

made of plush or lamb's wool. They were so quiet, those iron dogs

were; and the brass dogs never barked or snapped at any one."



"I never saw a brass dog," said the reporter. "What good are they?"



"Oh they are likely to be very useful in winter," the Baron replied.

"My brass dogs used to guard my fire-place and keep the blazing logs

from rolling out into my room and setting fire to the rug the Khan of

Tartary gave me for saving his life from a herd of Antipodes he and I

were hunting in the Himalaya Mountains."



"I don't see what you needed dogs to do that for," said the reporter.

"A fender would have done just as well, or a pair of andirons," he

added.



"That's what these dogs were," said the Baron. "They were fire dogs

and fire dogs are andirons."



Ananias pressed his lips tightly together, and into his eyes came a

troubled look. It was evident that, revolting as the idea was to him,

he thought the Baron was trying to deceive him. Noting his

displeasure, the Baron inwardly resolving to be careful how he handled

the truth, hastened on with his story.



"But dogs were never my favourite animals," he said. "With my pets I

am quite as I am with other things. I like to have pets that are

entirely different from the pets of other people, and that is why in

my day I have made companions of such animals as the sangaree, and the

camomile, and the--ah--the two-horned piccolo. I've had tame bees

even--in fact my bees used to be the wonder of Siam, in which country

I was stationed for three years, having been commissioned by a British

company to make a study of its climate with a view to finding out if

it would pay the company to go into the ice business there. Siam is,

as you have probably heard, a very warm country, and as ice is a very

rare thing in warm countries these English people thought they might

make a vast fortune by sending tug-boats up to the Arctic Ocean, and

with them capture and tow icebergs to Siam, where they might be cut up

and sold to the people at tremendous profit. The scheme was certainly

a good one, and I found many of the wealthy Siamese quite willing to

subscribe for a hundred pounds of ice a week at ten dollars a pound,

but it never came to anything because we had no means of preserving

the icebergs after we got them into the Gulf of Siam. The water was so

hot that they melted before we could cut them up, and we nearly got

ourselves into very serious trouble with the coast people for that

same reason. An iceberg, as you know, is a huge affair, and when a

dozen or two of them had melted in the Gulf they added so to the

quantity of water there that fifty miles of the coast line were

completely flooded, and thousands of valuable fish, able to live in

warm water only, were so chilled that they got pneumonia, and died.

You can readily imagine how indignant the Siamese fishermen were with

my company over the losses they had to bear, but their affection for

me personally was so great that they promised not to sue the company

if I would promise not to let the thing occur again. This I promised,

and all went well. But about the bees, it was while I was living in

Bangkok that I had them, and they were truly wonderful. There was

hardly anything those bees couldn't do after I got them tamed."



"How did you tame them, Baron," asked Ananias.



"Power of the eye, my boy," returned the Baron. "I attracted their

attention first and then held it. Of course, I tried my plan on one

bee first. He tamed the rest. Bees are very like children. They like

to play stunts--I think it is called stunts, isn't it, when one boy

does something, and all his companions try to do the same thing?"



"Yes," said Ananias, "I believe there is such a game, but I shouldn't

like to play it with you."



"Well, that was the way I did with the bees," said Mr. Munchausen. "I

tamed the king bee, and when he had learned all sorts of funny little

tricks, such as standing on his head and humming tunes, I let him go

back to the swarm. He was gone a week, and then he came back, he had

grown so fond of me--as well he might, because I fed him well, giving

him a large basket of flowers three times a day. Back with him came

two or three thousand other bees, and whatever Jang did they did."



"Who was Jang?" asked Ananias.



"That was the first bee's name. King Jang. Jang is Siamese for Billie,

and as I was always fond of the name, Billie, I called him Jang. By

and by every bee in the lot could hum the Star Spangled Banner and

Yankee Doodle as well as you or I could, and it was grand on those

soft moonlight nights we had there, to sit on the back porch of my

pagoda and listen to my bee orchestra discoursing sweet music. Of

course, as soon as Jang had learned to hum one tune it was easy enough

for him to learn another, and before long the bee orchestra could give

us any bit of music we wished to have. Then I used to give musicales

at my house and all the Siamese people, from the King down asked to be

invited, so that through my pets my home became one of the most

attractive in all Asia.



"And the honey those bees made! It was the sweetest honey you ever

tasted, and every morning when I got down to breakfast there was a

fresh bottleful ready for me, the bees having made it in the bottle

itself over night. They were the most grateful pets I ever had, and

once they saved my life. They used to live in a hive I had built for

them in one corner of my room and I could go to bed and sleep with

every door in my house open, and not be afraid of robbers, because

those bees were there to protect me. One night a lion broke loose from

the Royal Zoo, and while trotting along the road looking for something

to eat he saw my front door wide open. In he walked, and began to

sniff. He sniffed here and he sniffed there, but found nothing but a

pot of anchovy paste, which made him thirstier and hungrier than ever.

So he prowled into the parlour, and had his appetite further

aggravated by a bronze statue of the Emperor of China I had there. He

thought in the dim light it was a small-sized human being, and he

pounced on it in a minute. Well, of course, he couldn't make any

headway trying to eat a bronze statue, and the more he tried the more

hungry and angry he got. He roared until he shook the house and would

undoubtedly have awakened me had it not been that I am always a sound

sleeper and never wake until I have slept enough. Why, on one

occasion, on the Northern Pacific Railway, a train I was on ran into

and completely telescoped another while I was asleep in the smoking

car, and although I was severely burned and hurled out of the car

window to land sixty feet away on the prairie, I didn't wake up for

two hours. I was nearly buried alive because they thought I'd been

killed, I lay so still.



"But to return to the bees. The roaring of the lion disturbed them,

and Jang buzzed out of his hive to see what was the matter just as the

lion appeared at my bed-room door. The intelligent insect saw in a

moment what the trouble was, and he sounded the alarm for the rest of

the bees, who came swarming out of the hive in response to the

summons. Jang kept his eye on the lion meanwhile, and just as the

prowler caught sight of your uncle peacefully snoring away on the bed,

dreaming of his boyhood, and prepared to spring upon me, Jang buzzed

over and sat down upon his back, putting his sting where it would do

the most good. The angry lion, who in a moment would have fastened his

teeth upon me, turned with a yelp of pain, and the bite which was to

have been mine wrought havoc with his own back. Following Jang's

example, the other bees ranged themselves in line over the lion's

broad shoulders, and stung him until he roared with pain. Each time he

was stung he would whisk his head around like a dog after a flea, and

bite himself, until finally he had literally chewed himself up, when

he fainted from sheer exhaustion, and I was saved. You can imagine my

surprise when next morning I awakened to find a dying lion in my

room."



"But, Baron," said Ananias. "I don't understand one thing about it. If

you were fast asleep while all this was happening how did you know

that Jang did those things?"



[Illustration: "Jang buzzed over and sat down upon his back, putting

his sting where it would do the most good." _Chapter V._]



"Why, Jang told me himself," replied the Baron calmly.



"Could he talk?" cried Ananias in amazement.



"Not as you and I do," said the Baron. "Of course not, but Jang could

spell. I taught him how. You see I reasoned it out this way. If a bee

can be taught to sing a song which is only a story in music, why can't

he be taught to tell a story in real words. It was worth trying

anyhow, and I tried. Jang was an apt pupil. He was the most

intelligent bee I ever met, and it didn't take me more than a month to

teach him his letters, and when he once knew his letters it was easy

enough to teach him how to spell. I got a great big sheet and covered

it with twenty-six squares, and in each of these squares I painted a

letter of the alphabet, so that finally when Jang came to know them,

and wanted to tell me anything he would fly from one square to another

until he had spelled out whatever he wished to say. I would follow his

movements closely, and we got so after awhile that we could converse

for hours without any trouble whatsoever. I really believe that if

Jang had been a little heavier so that he could push the keys down far

enough he could have managed a typewriter as well as anybody, and when

I think about his wonderful mind and delicious fancy I deeply regret

that there never was a typewriting machine so delicately made that a

bee of his weight could make it go. The world would have been very

much enriched by the stories Jang had in his mind to tell, but it is

too late now. He is gone forever."



"How did you lose Jang, Baron?" asked Ananias, with tears in his eyes.



"He thought I had deceived him," said the Baron, with a sigh. "He was

as much of a stickler for truth as I am. An American friend of mine

sent me a magnificent parterre of wax flowers which were so perfectly

made that I couldn't tell them from the real. I was very proud of

them, and kept them in my room near the hive. When Jang and his tribe

first caught sight of them they were delighted and they sang as they

had never sung before just to show how pleased they were. Then they

set to work to make honey out of them. They must have laboured over

those flowers for two months before I thought to tell them that they

were only wax and not at all real. As I told Jang this, I

unfortunately laughed, thinking that he could understand the joke of

the thing as well as I, but I was mistaken. All that he could see was

that he had been deceived, and it made him very angry. Bees don't seem

to have a well-developed sense of humour. He cast a reproachful glance

at me and returned to his hive and on the morning of the third day

when I waked up they were moving out. They flew to my lattice and

ranged themselves along the slats and waited for Jang. In a moment he

appeared and at a given signal they buzzed out of my sight, humming a

farewell dirge as they went. I never saw them again."



Here the Baron wiped his eyes.



"I felt very bad about it," he went on, "and resolved then never again

to do anything which even suggested deception, and when several years

later I had my crest designed I had a bee drawn on it, for in my eyes

my good friend the bee, represents three great factors of the good and

successful life--Industry, Fidelity, and Truth."



Whereupon the Baron went his way, leaving Ananias to think it over.









VI



HE TELLS THE TWINS OF FIRE-WORKS





There was a great noise going on in the public square of Cimmeria when

Mr. Munchausen sauntered into the library at the home of the Heavenly

Twins.



"These Americans are having a great time of it celebrating their

Fourth of July," said he, as the house shook with the explosion of a

bomb. "They've burnt powder enough already to set ten revolutions

revolving, and they're going to outdo themselves to-night in the park.

They've made a bicycle out of the two huge pin-wheels, and they're

going to make Benedict Arnold ride a mile on it after it's lit."



The Twins appeared much interested. They too had heard much of the

celebration and some of its joys and when the Baron arrived they were

primed with questions.



"Uncle Munch," they said, helping the Baron to remove his hat and

coat, which they threw into a corner so anxious were they to get to

work, "do you think there's much danger in little boys having

fire-crackers and rockets and pin-wheels, or in little girls having

torpeters?"



"Well, I don't know," the Baron answered, warily. "What does your

venerable Dad say about it?"



"He thinks we ought to wait until we are older, but we don't," said

the Twins.



"Torpeters never sets nothing afire," said Angelica.



"That's true," said the Baron, kindly; "but after all your father is

right. Why do you know what happened to me when I was a boy?"



"You burnt your thumb," said the Twins, ready to make a guess at it.



"Well, you get me a cigar, and I'll tell you what happened to me when

I was a boy just because my father let me have all the fire-works I

wanted, and then perhaps you will see how wise your father is in not

doing as you wish him to," said Mr. Munchausen.



The Twins readily found the desired cigar, after which Mr. Munchausen

settled down comfortably in the hammock, and swinging softly to and

fro, told his story.



"My dear old father," said he, "was the most indulgent man that ever

lived. He'd give me anything in the world that I wanted whether he

could afford it or not, only he had an original system of giving which

kept him from being ruined by indulgence of his children. He gave me a

Rhine steamboat once without its costing him a cent. I saw it, wanted

it, was beginning to cry for it, when he patted me on the head and

told me I could have it, adding, however, that I must never take it

away from the river or try to run it myself. That satisfied me. All I

wanted really was the happiness of feeling it was mine, and my dear

old daddy gave me permission to feel that way. The same thing happened

with reference to the moon. He gave it to me freely and ungrudgingly.

He had received it from his father, he said, and he thought he had

owned it long enough. Only, he added, as he had about the steamboat, I

must leave it where it was and let other people look at it whenever

they wanted to, and not interfere if I found any other little boys or

girls playing with its beams, which I promised and have faithfully

observed to this day.



"Of course from such a parent as this you may very easily see

everything was to be expected on such a day as the Tenth of August

which the people in our region celebrated because it was my birthday.

He used to let me have my own way at all times, and it's a wonder I

wasn't spoiled. I really can't understand how it is that I have become

the man I am, considering how I was indulged when I was small.



"However, like all boys, I was very fond of celebrating the Tenth, and

being a more or less ingenious lad, I usually prepared my own

fire-works and many things happened which might not otherwise have

come to pass if I had been properly looked after as you are. The first

thing that happened to me on the Tenth of August that would have a

great deal better not have happened, was when I was--er--how old are

you Imps?"



"Sixteen," said they. "Going on eighteen."



"Nonsense," said the Baron. "Why you're not more than eight."



"Nope--we're sixteen," said Diavolo. "I'm eight and Angelica's eight

and twice eight is sixteen."



"Oh," said the Baron. "I see. Well, that was exactly the age I was at

the time. Just eight to a day."



"Sixteen we said," said the Twins.



"Yes," nodded the Baron. "Just eight, but going on towards sixteen. My

father had given me ten thalers to spend on noises, but unlike most

boys I did not care so much for noises as I did for novelties. It

didn't give me any particular pleasure to hear a giant cracker go off

with a bang. What I wanted to do most of all was to get up some kind

of an exhibition that would please the people and that could be seen

in the day-time instead of at night when everybody is tired and

sleepy. So instead of spending my money on fire-crackers and torpedoes

and rockets, I spent nine thalers of it on powder and one thaler on

putty blowers. My particular object was to make one grand effort and

provide passers-by with a free exhibition of what I was going to call

'Munchausen's Grand Geyser Cascade.' To do this properly I had set my

eye upon a fish pond not far from the town hall. It was a very deep

pond and about a mile in circumference, I should say. Putty blowers

were then selling at five for a pfennig and powder was cheap as sand

owing to the fact that the powder makers, expecting a war, had made a

hundred times as much as was needed, and as the war didn't come off,

they were willing to take almost anything they could get for it. The

consequence was that the powder I got was sufficient in quantity to

fill a rubber bag as large as five sofa cushions. This I sank in the

middle of the pond, without telling anybody what I intended to do, and

through the putty blowers, sealed tightly together end to end, I

conducted a fuse, which I made myself, from the powder bag to the

shore. My idea was that I could touch the thing off, you know, and

that about sixty square feet of the pond would fly up into the air and

then fall gracefully back again like a huge fountain. If it had worked

as I expected everything would have been all right, but it didn't. I

had too much powder, for a second after I had lit the fuse there came

a muffled roar and the whole pond in a solid mass, fish and all, went

flying up into the air and disappeared. Everybody was astonished, not

a few were very much frightened. I was scared to death but I never let

on to any one that I was the person that had blown the pond off. How

high the pond went I don't know, but I do know that for a week there

wasn't any sign of it, and then most unexpectedly out of what appeared

to be a clear sky there came the most extraordinary rain-storm you

ever saw. It literally poured down for two days, and, what I alone

could understand, with it came trout and sunfish and minnows, and most

singular to all but myself an old scow that was recognised as the

property of the owner of the pond suddenly appeared in the sky falling

toward the earth at a fearful rate of speed. When I saw the scow

coming I was more frightened than ever because I was afraid it might

fall upon and kill some of our neighbours. Fortunately, however, this

possible disaster was averted, for it came down directly over the

sharp-pointed lightning-rod on the tower of our public library and

stuck there like a piece of paper on a file.



"The rain washed away several acres of finely cultivated farms, but

the losses on crops and fences and so forth were largely reduced by

the fish that came with the storm. One farmer took a rake and caught

three hundred pounds of trout, forty pounds of sun-fish, eight

turtles, and a minnow in his potato patch in five minutes. Others were

almost as fortunate, but the damage was sufficiently large to teach me

that parents cannot be too careful about what they let their children

do on the day they celebrate."



"And weren't you ever punished?" asked the Twins.



"No, indeed," said the Baron. "Nobody ever knew that I did it because

I never told them. In fact you are the only two persons who ever heard

about it, and you mustn't tell, because there are still a number of

farmers around that region who would sue me for damages in case they

knew that I was responsible for the accident."



[Illustration: "Out of what appeared to be a clear sky came the most

extraordinary rain storm you ever saw." _Chapter VI._]



"That was pretty awful," said the Twins. "But we don't want to blow up

ponds so as to get cascadeses, but we do want torpeters. Torpeters

aren't any harm, are they, Uncle Munch?"



"Well, you can never tell. It all depends on the torpedo. Torpedoes

are sometimes made carelessly," said the Baron. "They ought to be made

as carefully as a druggist makes pills. So many pebbles, so much

paper, and so much saltpeter and sulphur, or whatever else is used to

make them go off. I had a very unhappy time once with a carelessly

made torpedo. I had two boxes full. They were those tin-foil torpedoes

that little girls are so fond of, and I expected they would make quite

a lot of noise, but the first ten I threw down didn't go off at all.

The eleventh for some reason or other, I never knew exactly what, I

hurled with all my force against the side of my father's barn, and my,

what a surprise it was! It smashed in the whole side of the barn and

sent seven bales of hay, and our big farm plough bounding down the

hillside into the town. The hay-bales smashed down fences; one of them

hit a cow-shed on its way down, knocked the back of it to smithereens

and then proceeded to demolish the rear end of a small crockery shop

that fronted on the main street. It struck the crockery shop square in

the middle of its back and threw down fifteen dozen cups and saucers,

thirty-two water pitchers, and five china busts of Shakespeare. The

din was frightful--but I couldn't help that. Nobody could blame me,

because I had no means of knowing that the man who made the torpedoes

was careless and had put a solid ball of dynamite into one of them. So

you see, my dear Imps, that even torpedoes are not always safe."



"Yes," said Angelica. "I guess I'll play with my dolls on my birthday.

They never goes off and blows things up."



"That's very wise of you," said the Baron.



"But what became of the plough, Uncle Munch?" said Diavolo.



"Oh, the plough didn't do much damage," replied Mr. Munchausen. "It

simply furrowed its way down the hill, across the main street, to the

bowling green. It ploughed up about one hundred feet of this before it

stopped, but nobody minded that much because it was to have been

ploughed and seeded again anyhow within a few days. Of course the

furrow it made in crossing the road was bad, and to make it worse the

share caught one of the water pipes that ran under the street, and

ripped it in two so that the water burst out and flooded the street

for a while, but one hundred and sixty thousand dollars would have

covered the damage."



The Twins were silent for a few moments and then they asked:



"Well, Uncle Munch, what kind of fire-works are safe anyhow?"



"My experience has taught me that there are only two kinds that are

safe," replied their old friend. "One is a Jack-o-lantern and the

other is a cigar, and as you are not old enough to have cigars, if you

will put on your hats and coats and go down into the garden and get me

two pumpkins, I'll make each of you a Jack-o'-lantern. What do you

say?"



"We say yes," said the Twins, and off they went, while the Baron

turning over in the hammock, and arranging a pillow comfortably under

his head, went to sleep to dream of more birthday recollections in

case there should be a demand for them later on.









VII



SAVED BY A MAGIC LANTERN





When the Sunday dinner was over, the Twins, on Mr. Munchausen's

invitation, climbed into the old warrior's lap, Angelica kissing him

on the ear, and Diavolo giving his nose an affectionate tweak.



"Ah!" said the Baron. "That's it!"



"What's what, Uncle Munch?" demanded Diavolo.



"Why that," returned the Baron. "I was wondering what it was I needed

to make my dinner an unqualified success. There was something lacking,

but what it was, we have had so much, I could not guess until you two

Imps kissed me and tweaked my nasal feature. Now I know, for really a

feeling of the most blessed contentment has settled upon my soul."



"Don't you wish _you_ had two youngsters like us, Uncle Munch?" asked

the Twins.



"Do I wish I had? Why I have got two youngsters like you," the Baron

replied. "I've got 'em right here too."



"Where?" asked the Twins, looking curiously about them for the other

two.



"On my knees, of course," said he. "You are mine. Your papa gave you

to me--and you are as like yourselves as two peas in a pod."



"I--I hope you aren't going to take us away from here," said the

Twins, a little ruefully. They were very fond of the Baron, but they

didn't exactly like the idea of being given away.



"Oh no--not at all," said the Baron. "Your father has consented to

keep you here for me and your mother has kindly volunteered to look

after you. There is to be no change, except that you belong to me,

and, vice versa, I belong to you."



"And I suppose, then," said Diavolo, "if you belong to us you've got

to do pretty much what we tell you to?"



"Exactly," responded Mr. Munchausen. "If you should ask me to tell you

a story I'd have to do it, even if you were to demand the full

particulars of how I spent Christmas with Mtulu, King of the Taafe

Eatars, on the upper Congo away down in Africa--which is a tale I have

never told any one in all my life."



"It sounds as if it might be interesting," said the Twins. "Those are

real candy names, aren't they?"



"Yes," said the Baron. "Taafe sounds like taffy and Mtulu is very

suggestive of chewing gum. That's the curious thing about the savage

tribes of Africa. Their names often sound as if they might be things

to eat instead of people. Perhaps that is why they sometimes eat each

other--though, of course, I won't say for sure that that is the real

explanation of cannibalism."



"What's cannon-ballism?" asked Angelica.



"He didn't say cannon-ballism," said Diavolo, scornfully. "It was

candy-ballism."



"Well--you've both come pretty near it," said the Baron, "and we'll

let the matter rest there, or I won't have time to tell you how

Christmas got me into trouble with King Mtulu."



The Baron called for a cigar, which the Twins lighted for him and then

he began.



"You may not have heard," he said, "that some twenty or thirty years

ago I was in command of an expedition in Africa. Our object was to

find Lake Majolica, which we hoped would turn up half way between

Lollokolela and the Clebungo Mountains. Lollokolela was the

furthermost point to which civilisation had reached at that time, and

was directly in the pathway to the Clebungo Mountains, which the

natives said were full of gold and silver mines and scattered all over

which were reputed to be caves in which diamonds and rubies and other

gems of the rarest sort were to be found in great profusion. No white

man had ever succeeded in reaching this marvellously rich range of

hills for the reason that after leaving Lollokolela there was, as far

as was known, no means of obtaining water, and countless adventurous

spirits had had to give up because of the overpowering thirst which

the climate brought upon them.



"Under such circumstances it was considered by a company of gentlemen

in London to be well worth their while to set about the discovery of a

lake, which they decided in advance to call Majolica, for reasons best

known to themselves; they probably wanted to jar somebody with it. And

to me was intrusted the mission of leading the expedition. I will

confess that I did not want to go for the very good reason that I did

not wish to be eaten alive by the savage tribes that infested that

region, but the company provided me with a close fitting suit of mail,

which I wore from the time I started until I returned. It was very

fortunate for me that I was so provided, for on three distinct

occasions I was served up for state dinners and each time successfully

resisted the carving knife and as a result, was thereafter well

received, all the chiefs looking upon me as one who bore a charmed

existence."



Here the Baron paused long enough for the Twins to reflect upon and

realise the terrors which had beset him on his way to Lake Majolica,

and be it said that if they had thought him brave before they now

deemed him a very hero of heroes.



"When I set out," said the Baron, "I was accompanied by ten Zanzibaris

and a thousand tins of condensed dinners."



"A thousand what, Uncle Munch?" asked Jack, his mouth watering.



"Condensed dinners," said the Baron, "I had a lot of my favourite

dinners condensed and put up in tins. I didn't expect to be gone more

than a year and a thousand dinners condensed and tinned, together with

the food I expected to find on the way, elephant meat, rhinoceros

steaks, and tiger chops, I thought would suffice for the trip. I could

eat the condensed dinners and my followers could have the elephant's

meat, rhinoceros steaks, and tiger chops--not to mention the bananas

and other fruits which grow wild in the African jungle. It was not

long, however, before I made the discovery that the Zanzibaris, in

order to eat tigers, need to learn first how to keep tigers from

eating them. We went to bed late one night on the fourth day out from

Lollokolela, and when we waked up the next morning every mother's son

of us, save myself, had been eaten by tigers, and again it was nothing

but my coat of mail that saved me. There were eighteen tigers' teeth

sticking into the sleeve of the coat, as it was. You can imagine my

distress at having to continue the search for Lake Majolica alone. It

was then that I acquired the habit of talking to myself, which has

kept me young ever since, for I enjoy my own conversation hugely, and

find myself always a sympathetic listener. I walked on for days and

days, until finally, on Christmas Eve, I reached King Mtulu's palace.

Of course your idea of a palace is a magnificent five-story building

with beautiful carvings all over the front of it, marble stair-cases

and handsomely painted and gilded ceilings. King Mtulu's palace was

nothing of the sort, although for that region it was quite

magnificent, the walls being decorated with elephants' tusks,

crocodile teeth and many other treasures such as delight the soul of

the Central African.



"Now as I may not have told you, King Mtulu was the fiercest of the

African chiefs, and it is said that up to the time when I outwitted

him no white man had ever encountered him and lived to tell the tale.

Consequently, when without knowing it on this sultry Christmas Eve,

laden with the luggage and the tinned dinners and other things I had

brought with me I stumbled upon the blood-thirsty monarch I gave

myself up for lost.



"'Who comes here to disturb the royal peace?' cried Mtulu, savagely,

as I crossed the threshold.



"'It is I, your highness,' I returned, my face blanching, for I

recognized him at once by the ivory ring he wore in the end of his

nose.



"'Who is I?' retorted Mtulu, picking up his battle axe and striding

forward.



"A happy thought struck me then. These folks are superstitious.

Perhaps the missionaries may have told these uncivilised creatures the

story of Santa Claus. I will pretend that I am Santa Claus. So I

answered, 'Who is I, O Mtulu, Bravest of the Taafe Chiefs? I am Santa

Claus, the Children's Friend, and bearer of gifts to and for all.'



"Mtulu gazed at me narrowly for a moment and then he beat lightly upon a

tom-tom at his side. Immediately thirty of the most villainous-looking

natives, each armed with a club, appeared.



"'Arrest that man,' said Mtulu, 'before he goes any farther. He is an

impostor.'



"'If your majesty pleases,' I began.



"'Silence!' he cried, 'I am fierce and I eat men, but I love truth.

The truthful man has nothing to fear from me, for I have been

converted from my evil ways and since last New Year's day I have eaten

only those who have attempted to deceive me. You will be served raw at

dinner to-morrow night. My respect for your record as a man of courage

leads me to spare you the torture of the frying-pan. You are Baron

Munchausen. I recognized you the moment you turned pale. Another man

would have blushed.'



"So I was carried off and shut up in a mud hovel, the interior walls

of which were of white, a fact which strangely enough, preserved my

life when later I came to the crucial moment. I had brought with me,

among other things, for my amusement solely, a magic lantern. As a

child, I had always been particularly fond of pictures, and when I

thought of the lonely nights in Africa, with no books at hand, no

theatres, no cotillions to enliven the monotony of my life, I resolved

to take with me my little magic-lantern as much for company as for

anything else. It was very compact in form. It folded up to be hardly

larger than a wallet containing a thousand one dollar bills, and the

glass lenses of course could be carried easily in my trousers pockets.

The views, instead of being mounted on glass, were put on a substance

not unlike glass, but thinner, called gelatine. All of these things I

carried in my vest pockets, and when Mtulu confiscated my luggage the

magic lantern and views of course escaped his notice.



"Christmas morning came and passed and I was about to give myself up

for lost, for Mtulu was not a king to be kept from eating a man by

anything so small as a suit of mail, when I received word that before

dinner my captor and his suite were going to pay me a formal parting

call. Night was coming on and as I sat despondently awaiting the

king's arrival, I suddenly bethought me of a lantern slide of the

British army, standing and awaiting the command to fire, I happened to

have with me. It was a superb view--lifelike as you please. Why not

throw that on the wall and when Mtulu enters he will find me

apparently with a strong force at my command, thought I. It was no

sooner thought than it was done and my life was saved. Hardly was that

noble picture reflected upon the rear wall of my prison when the door

opened and Mtulu, followed by his suite, appeared. I rose to greet

him, but apparently he saw me not. Mute with terror he stood upon the

threshold gazing at that terrible line of soldiers ready as he thought

to sweep him and his men from the face of the earth with their

death-dealing bullets.



[Illustration: "'I am your slave,' he replied to my greeting, kneeling

before me, 'I yield all to you.'" _Chapter VII._]



"'I am your slave,' he replied to my greeting, kneeling before me, 'I

yield all to you.'



"'I thought you would,' said I. 'But I ask nothing save the discovery

of Lake Majolica. If within twenty-four hours Lake Majolica is not

discovered I give the command to fire!' Then I turned and gave the

order to carry arms, and lo! by a quick change of slides, the army

appeared at a carry. Mtulu gasped with terror, but accepted my

ultimatum. I was freed, Lake Majolica was discovered before ten

o'clock the next morning, and at five o'clock I was on my way home,

the British army reposing quietly in my breast pocket. It was a mighty

narrow escape!"



"I should say so," said the Twins. "But Mtulu must have been awful

stupid not to see what it was."



"Didn't he see through it when he saw you put the army in your

pocket?" asked Diavolo.



"No," said the Baron, "that frightened him worse than ever, for you

see he reasoned this way. If I could carry an army in my pocket-book,

what was to prevent my carrying Mtulu himself and all his tribe off in

the same way! He thought I was a marvellous man to be able to do

that."



"Well, we guess he was right," said the Twins, as they climbed down

from the Baron's lap to find an atlas and search the map of Africa for

Lake Majolica. This they failed to find and the Baron's explanation is

unknown to me, for when the Imps returned, the warrior had departed.









VIII



AN ADVENTURE IN THE DESERT





"The editor has a sort of notion, Mr. Munchausen," said Ananias, as he

settled down in the big arm-chair before the fire in the Baron's

library, "that he'd like to have a story about a giraffe. Public taste

has a necky quality about it of late."



"What do you say to that, Sapphira?" asked the Baron, politely turning

to Mrs. Ananias, who had called with her husband. "Are you interested

in giraffes?"



"I like lions better," said Sapphira. "They roar louder and bite more

fiercely."



"Well, suppose we compromise," said the Baron, "and have a story about

a poodle dog. Poodle dogs sometimes look like lions, and as a rule

they are as gentle as giraffes."



"I know a better scheme than that," put in Ananias. "Tell us a story

about a lion and a giraffe, and if you feel disposed throw in a few

poodles for good measure. I'm writing on space this year."



"That's so," said Sapphira, wearily. "I could say it was a story about

a lion and Ananias could call it a giraffe story, and we'd each be

right."



"Very well," said the Baron, "it shall be a story of each, only I must

have a cigar before I begin. Cigars help me to think, and the

adventure I had in the Desert of Sahara with a lion, a giraffe, and a

slippery elm tree was so long ago that I shall have to do a great deal

of thinking in order to recall it."



So the Baron went for a cigar, while Ananias and Sapphira winked

enviously at each other and lamented their lost glory. In a minute the

Baron returned with the weed, and after lighting it, began his story.



"I was about twenty years old when this thing happened to me," said

he. "I had gone to Africa to investigate the sand in the Desert of

Sahara for a Sand Company in America. As you may already have heard,

sand is a very useful thing in a great many ways, more particularly

however in the building trades. The Sand Company was formed for the

purpose of supplying sand to everybody that wanted it, but land in

America at that time was so very expensive that there was very little

profit in the business. People who owned sand banks and sand lots

asked outrageous prices for their property; and the sea-shore people

were not willing to part with any of theirs because they needed it in

their hotel business. The great attraction of a seaside hotel is the

sand on the beach, and of course the proprietors weren't going to sell

that. They might better even sell their brass bands. So the Sand

Company thought it might be well to build some steam-ships, load them

with oysters, or mowing machines, or historical novels, or anything

else that is produced in the United States, and in demand elsewhere;

send them to Egypt, sell the oysters, or mowing machines, or

historical novels, and then have the ships fill up with sand from the

Sahara, which they could get for nothing, and bring it back in ballast

to the United States."



"It must have cost a lot!" said Ananias.



"Not at all," returned the Baron. "The profits on the oysters and

mowing machines and historical novels were so large that all expenses

both ways were more than paid, so that when it was delivered in

America the sand had really cost less than nothing. We could have

thrown it all overboard and still have a profit left. It was I who

suggested the idea to the President of the Sand Company--his name was

Bartlett, or--ah--Mulligan--or some similar well-known American name,

I can't exactly recall it now. However, Mr. Bartlett, or Mr. Mulligan,

or whoever it was, was very much pleased with the idea and asked me if

I wouldn't go to the Sahara, investigate the quality of the sand, and

report; and as I was temporarily out of employment I accepted the

commission. Six weeks later I arrived in Cairo and set out immediately

on a tour of the desert. I went alone because I preferred not to take

any one into my confidence, and besides one can always be more

independent when he has only his own wishes to consult. I also went on

foot, for the reason that camels need a great deal of care--at least

mine would have, if I'd had one, because I always like to have my

steeds well groomed whether there is any one to see them or not. So to

save myself trouble I started off alone on foot. In twenty-four hours

I travelled over a hundred miles of the desert, and the night of the

second day found me resting in the shade of a slippery elm tree in the

middle of an oasis, which after much suffering and anxiety I had

discovered. It was a beautiful moonlight night and I was enjoying it

hugely. There were no mosquitoes or insects of any kind to interfere

with my comfort. No insects could have flown so far across the sands.

I have no doubt that many of them have tried to get there, but up to

the time of my arrival none had succeeded, and I felt as happy as

though I were in Paradise.



"After eating my supper and taking a draught of the delicious spring

water that purled up in the middle of the oasis, I threw myself down

under the elm tree, and began to play my violin, without which in

those days I never went anywhere."



"I didn't know you played the violin," said Sapphira. "I thought your

instrument was the trombone--plenty of blow and a mighty stretch."



"I don't--now," said the Baron, ignoring the sarcasm. "I gave it up

ten years ago--but that's a different story. How long I played that

night I don't know, but I do know that lulled by the delicious strains

of the music and soothed by the soft sweetness of the atmosphere I

soon dropped off to sleep. Suddenly I was awakened by what I thought

to be the distant roar of thunder. 'Humph!' I said to myself. 'This is

something new. A thunder storm in the Desert of Sahara is a thing I

never expected to see, particularly on a beautifully clear moonlight

night'--for the moon was still shining like a great silver ball in the

heavens, and not a cloud was anywhere to be seen. Then it occurred to

me that perhaps I had been dreaming, so I turned over to go to sleep

again. Hardly had I closed my eyes when a second ear-splitting roar

came bounding over the sands, and I knew that it was no dream, but an

actual sound that I heard. I sprang to my feet and looked about the

horizon and there, a mere speck in the distance, was something--for

the moment I thought a cloud, but in another instant I changed my

mind, for glancing through my telescope I perceived it was not a cloud

but a huge lion with the glitter of hunger in his eye. What I had

mistaken for the thunder was the roar of this savage beast. I seized

my gun and felt for my cartridge box only to discover that I had lost

my ammunition and was there alone, unarmed, in the great desert, at

the mercy of that savage creature, who was drawing nearer and nearer

every minute and giving forth the most fearful roars you ever heard.

It was a terrible moment and I was in despair.



"'It's all up with you, Baron,' I said to myself, and then I caught

sight of the tree. It seemed my only chance. I must climb that. I

tried, but alas! As I have told you it was a slippery elm tree, and I

might as well have tried to climb a greased pole. Despite my frantic

efforts to get a grip upon the trunk I could not climb more than two

feet without slipping back. It was impossible. Nothing was left for me

to do but to take to my legs, and I took to them as well as I knew

how. My, what a run it was, and how hopeless. The beast was gaining on

me every second, and before me lay mile after mile of desert. 'Better

give up and treat the beast to a breakfast, Baron,' I moaned to

myself. 'When there's only one thing to do, you might as well do it

and be done with it. Your misery will be over the more quickly if you

stop right here.' As I spoke these words, I slowed up a little, but

the frightful roaring of the lion unnerved me for an instant, or

rather nerved me on to a spurt, which left the lion slightly more to

the rear--and which resulted in the saving of my life; for as I ran

on, what should I see about a mile ahead but another slippery elm

tree, and under it stood a giraffe who had apparently fallen asleep

while browsing among its upper branches, and filling its stomach with

its cooling cocoanuts. The giraffe had its back to me, and as I sped

on I formed my plan. I would grab hold of the giraffe's tail; haul

myself up onto his back; climb up his neck into the tree, and then

give my benefactor a blow between the eyes which would send him flying

across the desert before the lion could come along and get up into the

tree the same way I did. The agony of fear I went through as I

approached the long-necked creature was something dreadful. Suppose

the giraffe should be awakened by the roaring of the lion before I got

there and should rush off himself to escape the fate that awaited me?

I nearly dropped, I was so nervous, and the lion was now not more than

a hundred yards away. I could hear his breath as he came panting on. I

redoubled my speed; his pants came closer, closer, until at length

after what seemed a year, I reached the giraffe, caught his tail,

raised myself up to his back, crawled along his neck and dropped

fainting into the tree just as the lion sprang upon the giraffe's back

and came on toward me. What happened then I don't know, for as I have

told you I swooned away; but I do know that when I came to, the

giraffe had disappeared and the lion lay at the foot of the tree dead

from a broken neck."



"A broken neck?" demanded Sapphira.



"Yes," returned the Baron. "A broken neck! From which I concluded that

as the lion reached the nape of the giraffe's neck, the giraffe had

waked up and bent his head toward the earth, thus causing the lion to

fall head first to the ground instead of landing as he had expected in

the tree with me."



"It was wonderful," said Sapphira, scornfully.



"Yes," said Ananias, "but I shouldn't think a lion could break his

neck falling off a giraffe. Perhaps it was one of the slippery elm

cocoanuts that fell on him."



"Well, of course," said the Baron, rising, "that would all depend upon

the height of the giraffe. Mine was the tallest one I ever saw."



"About how tall?" asked Ananias.



"Well," returned the Baron, thoughtfully, as if calculating, "did you

ever see the Eiffel Tower?"



"Yes," said Ananias.



"Well," observed the Baron, "I don't think my giraffe was more than

half as tall as that."



With which estimate the Baron bowed his guests out of the room, and

with a placid smile on his face, shook hands with himself.



"Mr. and Mrs. Ananias are charming people," he chuckled, "but amateurs

both--deadly amateurs."



[Illustration: "I reached the giraffe, raised myself to his back, crawled

along his neck and dropped fainting into the tree." _Chapter VIII._]









IX



DECORATION DAY IN THE CANNIBAL ISLANDS





"Uncle Munch," said Diavolo as he clambered up into the old warrior's

lap, "I don't suppose you could tell us a story about Decoration Day

could you?"



"I think I might try," said Mr. Munchausen, puffing thoughtfully upon

his cigar and making a ring with the smoke for Angelica to catch upon

her little thumb. "I might try--but it will all depend upon whether

you want me to tell you about Decoration Day as it is celebrated in

the United States, or the way a band of missionaries I once knew in

the Cannibal Islands observed it for twenty years or more."



"Why can't we have both stories?" said Angelica. "I think that would

be the nicest way. Two stories is twice as good as one."



"Well, I don't know," returned Mr. Munchausen. "You see the trouble is

that in the first instance I could tell you only what a beautiful

thing it is that every year the people have a day set apart upon which

they especially honour the memory of the noble fellows who lost their

lives in defence of their country. I'm not much of a poet and it takes

a poet to be able to express how beautiful and grand it all is, and so

I should be afraid to try it. Besides it might sadden your little

hearts to have me dwell upon the almost countless number of heroes who

let themselves be killed so that their fellow-citizens might live in

peace and happiness. I'd have to tell you about hundreds and hundreds

of graves scattered over the battle fields that no one knows about,

and which, because no one knows of them, are not decorated at all,

unless Nature herself is kind enough to let a little dandelion or a

daisy patch into the secret, so that they may grow on the green grass

above these forgotten, unknown heroes who left their homes, were shot

down and never heard of afterwards."



"Does all heroes get killed?" asked Angelica.



"No," said Mr. Munchausen. "I and a great many others lived through

the wars and are living yet."



"Well, how about the missionaries?" said Diavolo. "I didn't know they

had Decoration Day in the Cannibal Islands."



"I didn't either until I got there," returned the Baron. "But they

have and they have it in July instead of May. It was one of the most

curious things I ever saw and the natives, the men who used to be

cannibals, like it so much that if the missionaries were to forget it

they'd either remind them of it or have a celebration of their own. I

don't know whether I ever told you about my first experience with the

cannibals--did I?"



"I don't remember it, but if you had I would have," said Diavolo.



"So would I," said Angelica. "I remember most everything you say,

except when I want you to say it over again, and even then I haven't

forgotten it."



"Well, it happened this way," said the Baron. "It was when I was

nineteen years old. I sort of thought at that time I'd like to be a

sailor, and as my father believed in letting me try whatever I wanted

to do I took a position as first mate of a steam brig that plied

between San Francisco and Nepaul, taking San Francisco canned tomatoes

to Nepaul and bringing Nepaul pepper back to San Francisco, making

several dollars both ways. Perhaps I ought to explain to you that

Nepaul pepper is red, and hot; not as hot as a furnace fire, but hot

enough for your papa and myself when we order oysters at a club and

have them served so cold that we think they need a little more warmth

to make them palatable and digestible. You are not yet old enough to

know the meaning of such words as palatable and digestible, but some

day you will be and then you'll know what your Uncle means. At any

rate it was on the return voyage from Nepaul that the water tank on

the _Betsy S._ went stale and we had to stop at the first place we

could to fill it up with fresh water. So we sailed along until we came

in sight of an Island and the Captain appointed me and two sailors a

committee of three to go ashore and see if there was a spring anywhere

about. We went, and the first thing we knew we were in the midst of a

lot of howling, hungry savages, who were crazy to eat us. My

companions were eaten, but when it came to my turn I tried to reason

with the chief. 'Now see here, my friend,' said I, 'I'm perfectly

willing to be served up at your breakfast, if I can only be convinced

that you will enjoy eating me. What I don't want is to have my life

wasted!' 'That's reasonable enough,' said he. 'Have you got a sample

of yourself along for me to taste?' 'I have,' I replied, taking out a

bottle of Nepaul pepper, that by rare good luck I happened to have in

my pocket. 'That is a portion of my left foot powdered. It will give

you some idea of what I taste like,' I added. 'If you like that,

you'll like me. If you don't, you won't.'"



"That was fine," said Diavolo. "You told pretty near the truth, too,

Uncle Munch, because you are hot stuff yourself, ain't you?"



"I am so considered, my boy," said Mr. Munchausen. "The chief took a

teaspoonful of the pepper down at a gulp, and let me go when he

recovered. He said he guessed I wasn't quite his style, and he thought

I'd better depart before I set fire to the town. So I filled up the

water bag, got into the row-boat, and started back to the ship, but

the _Betsy S._ had gone and I was forced to row all the way to San

Francisco, one thousand, five hundred and sixty-two miles distant. The

captain and crew had given us all up for lost. I covered the distance

in six weeks, living on water and Nepaul pepper, and when I finally

reached home, I told my father that, after all, I was not so sure that

I liked a sailor's life. But I never forgot those cannibals or their

island, as you may well imagine. They and their home always interested

me hugely and I resolved if the fates ever drove me that way again, I

would go ashore and see how the people were getting on. The fates,

however, were a long time in drawing me that way again, for it was not

until July, ten years ago that I reached there the second time. I was

off on a yachting trip, with an English friend, when one afternoon we

dropped anchor off that Cannibal Island.



"'Let's go ashore,' said I. 'What for?' said my host; and then I told

him the story and we went, and it was well we did so, for it was then

and there that I discovered the new way the missionaries had of

celebrating Decoration Day.



"No sooner had we landed than we noticed that the Island had become

civilised. There were churches, and instead of tents and mud-hovels,

beautiful residences appeared here and there, through the trees. 'I

fancy this isn't the island,' said my host. 'There aren't any

cannibals about here.' I was about to reply indignantly, for I was

afraid he was doubting the truth of my story, when from the top of a

hill, not far distant, we heard strains of music. We went to see

whence it came, and what do you suppose we saw? Five hundred

villainous looking cannibals marching ten abreast along a fine street,

and, cheering them from the balconies of the houses that fronted on

the highway, were the missionaries and their friends and their

children and their wives.



"'This can't be the place, after all,' said my host again.



"'Yes it is,' said I, 'only it has been converted. They must be

celebrating some native festival.' Then as I spoke the procession

stopped and the head missionary followed by a band of beautiful girls,

came down from a platform and placed garlands of flowers and beautiful

wreaths on the shoulders and heads of those reformed cannibals. In

less than an hour every one of the huge black fellows was covered with

roses and pinks and fragrant flowers of all kinds, and then they

started on parade again. It was a fine sight, but I couldn't

understand what it was all done for until that night, when I dined

with the head missionary--and what do you suppose it was?"



"I give it up," said Diavolo, "maybe the missionaries thought the

cannibals didn't have enough clothes on."



"I guess I can't guess," said Angelica.



"They were celebrating Decoration Day," said Mr. Munchausen. "They

were strewing flowers on the graves of departed missionaries."



"You didn't tell us about any graves," said Diavolo.



[Illustration: "They were celebrating Decoration Day ... strewing

flowers on the graves of departed missionaries." _Chapter IX._]



"Why certainly I did," said the Baron. "The cannibals themselves were

the only graves those poor departed missionaries ever had. Every one

of those five hundred savages was the grave of a missionary, my dears,

and having been converted, and taught that it was not good to eat

their fellow-men, they did all in their power afterwards to show their

repentance, keeping alive the memory of the men they had treated so

badly by decorating themselves on memorial day--and one old fellow,

the savagest looking, but now the kindest-hearted being in the world,

used always to wear about his neck a huge sign, upon which he had

painted in great black letters:



                              HERE LIES

                         JOHN THOMAS WILKINS,

                               SAILOR.

                 DEPARTED THIS LIFE, MAY 24TH, 1861.

                   HE WAS A MAN OF SPLENDID TASTE.



"The old cannibal had eaten Wilkins and later when he had been

converted and realised that he himself was the grave of a worthy man,

as an expiation he devoted his life to the memory of John Thomas

Wilkins, and as a matter of fact, on the Cannibal Island Decoration

Day he would lie flat on the floor all the day, groaning under the

weight of a hundred potted plants, which he placed upon himself in

memory of Wilkins."



Here Mr. Munchausen paused for breath, and the twins went out into the

garden to try to imagine with the aid of a few practical experiments

how a cannibal would look with a hundred potted plants adorning his

person.









X



MR. MUNCHAUSEN'S ADVENTURE WITH A SHARK





                    Mr. and Mrs. Henry B. Ananias.

          _THURSDAYS._                         _CIMMERIA._



This was the card sent by the reporter of the _Gehenna Gazette_, and

Mrs. Ananias to Mr. Munchausen upon his return from a trip to mortal

realms concerning which many curious reports have crept into

circulation. Owing to a rumour persistently circulated at one time,

Mr. Munchausen had been eaten by a shark, and it was with the

intention of learning, if possible, the basis for the rumour that

Ananias and Sapphira called upon the redoubtable Baron of other days.



Mr. Munchausen graciously received the callers and asked what he could

do for them.



"Our readers, Mr. Munchausen," explained Ananias, "have been much

concerned over rumours of your death at the hands of a shark."



"Sharks have no hands," said the Baron quietly.



"Well--that aside," observed Ananias. "Were you killed by a shark?"



"Not that I recall," said the Baron. "I may have been, but I don't

remember it. Indeed I recall only one adventure with a shark. That

grew out of my mission on behalf of France to the Czar of Russia. I

carried letters once from the King of France to his Imperial Coolness

the Czar."



"What was the nature of the letters?" asked Ananias.



"I never knew," replied the Baron. "As I have said, it was a secret

mission, and the French Government never took me into its confidence.

The only thing I know about it is that I was sent to St. Petersburg,

and I went, and in the course of time I made myself much beloved of

both the people and his Majesty the Czar. I am the only person that

ever lived that was liked equally by both, and if I had attached

myself permanently to the Czar, Russia would have been a different

country to-day."



"What country would it have been, Mr. Munchausen," asked Sapphira

innocently, "Germany or Siam?"



"I can't specify, my dear madame," the Baron replied. "It wouldn't be

fair. But, at any rate, I went to Russia, and was treated warmly by

everybody, except the climate, which was, as it is at all times, very

freezing. That's the reason the Russian people like the climate. It is

the only thing the Czar can't change by Imperial decree, and the

people admire its independence and endure it for that reason. But as I

have said, everybody was pleased with me, and the Czar showed me

unusual attention. He gave fêtes in my honour. He gave the most

princely dinners, and I met the very best people in St. Petersburg,

and at one of these dinners I was invited to join a yachting party on

a cruise around the world.



"Well, of course, though a landsman in every sense of the word, I am

fond of yachting, and I immediately accepted the invitation. The yacht

we went on was the Boomski Zboomah, belonging to Prince--er--now

what was that Prince's name! Something like--er--Sheeroff or

Jibski--or--er--well, never mind that. I meet so many princes it is

difficult to remember their names. We'll say his name was Jibski."



"Suppose we do," said Ananias, with a jealous grin. "Jibski is such a

remarkable name. It will look well in print."



"All right," said the Baron, "Jibski be it. The yacht belonged to

Prince Jibski, and she was a beauty. There was a stateroom and a

steward for everybody on board, and nothing that could contribute to a

man's comfort was left unattended to. We set sail on the 23rd of

August, and after cruising about the North coast of Europe for a week

or two, we steered the craft south, and along about the middle of

September we reached the Amphibian Islands, and anchored. It was here

that I had my first and last experience with sharks. If they had been

plain, ordinary sharks I'd have had an easy time of it, but when you

get hold of these Amphibian sharks you are likely to get yourself into

twenty-three different kinds of trouble."



"My!" said Sapphira. "All those? Does the number include being struck

by lightning?"



"Yes," the Baron answered, "And when you remember that there are only

twenty-four different kinds altogether you can see what a peck of

trouble an Amphibian shark can get you into. I thought my last hour

had come when I met with him. You see when we reached the Amphibian

Islands, we naturally thought we'd like to go ashore and pick the

cocoanuts and raisins and other things that grow there, and when I got

upon dry land again I felt strongly tempted to go down upon the

beautiful little beach in the harbour and take a swim. Prince Jibski

advised me against it, but I was set upon going. He told me the place

was full of sharks, but I wasn't afraid because I was always a

remarkably rapid swimmer, and I felt confident of my ability, in case

I saw a shark coming after me, to swim ashore before he could possibly

catch me, provided I had ten yards start. So in I went leaving my gun

and clothing on the beach. Oh, it was fun! The water was quite warm,

and the sandy bottom of the bay was deliciously soft and pleasant to

the feet. I suppose I must have sported in the waves for ten or

fifteen minutes before the trouble came. I had just turned a

somersault in the water, when, as my head came to the surface, I saw

directly in front of me, the unmistakable fin of a shark, and to my

unspeakable dismay not more than five feet away. As I told you, if it

had been ten yards away I should have had no fear, but five feet meant

another story altogether. My heart fairly jumped into my mouth. It

would have sunk into my boots if I had had them on, but I hadn't, so

it leaped upward into my mouth as I turned to swim ashore, by which

time the shark had reduced the distance between us by one foot. I

feared that all was up with me, and was trying to think of an

appropriate set of last words, when Prince Jibski, noting my peril,

fired one of the yacht's cannon in our direction. Ordinarily this

would have been useless, for the yacht's cannon was never loaded with

anything but a blank charge, but in this instance it was better than

if it had been loaded with ball and shot, for not only did the sound

of the explosion attract the attention of the shark and cause him to

pause for a moment, but also the wadding from the gun dropped directly

upon my back, so showing that Prince Jibski's aim was not as good as

it might have been. Had the cannon been loaded with a ball or a shell,

you can very well understand how it would have happened that yours

truly would have been killed then and there."



"We should have missed you," said Ananias sweetly.



"Thanks," said the Baron. "But to resume. The shark's pause gave me

the start I needed, and the heat from the burning wadding right

between my shoulders caused me to redouble my efforts to get away from

the shark and it, so that I never swam faster in my life, and was soon

standing upon the shore, jeering at my fearful pursuer, who, strange

to say, showed no inclination to stop the chase now that I was, as I

thought, safely out of his reach. I didn't jeer very long I can tell

you, for in another minute I saw why the shark didn't stop chasing me,

and why Amphibian sharks are worse than any other kind. That shark had

not only fins like all other sharks to swim with, but he had likewise

three pairs of legs that he could use on land quite as well as he

could use the fins in the water. And then began the prettiest chase

you ever saw in your life. As he emerged from the water I grabbed up

my gun and ran. Round and round the island we tore, I ahead, he thirty

or forty yards behind, until I got to a place where I could stop

running and take a hasty shot at him. Then I aimed, and fired. My aim

was good, but struck one of the huge creature's teeth, broke it off

short, and bounded off to one side. This made him more angry than

ever, and he redoubled his efforts to catch me. I redoubled mine,

until I could get another shot at him. The second shot, like the

first, struck the creature in the teeth, only this time it was more

effective. The bullet hit his jaw lengthwise, and knocked every tooth

on that side of his head down his throat. So it went. I ran. He

pursued. I fired; he lost his teeth, until finally I had knocked out

every tooth he had, and then, of course, I wasn't afraid of him, and

let him come up with me. With his teeth he could have ground me to

atoms at one bite. Without them he was as powerless as a bowl of

currant jelly, and when he opened his huge jaws, as he supposed to

bite me in two, he was the most surprised looking fish you ever saw on

land or sea to discover that the effect his jaws had upon my safety

was about as great as had they been nothing but two feather bed

mattresses."



"You must have been badly frightened, though," said Ananias.



"No," said the Baron. "I laughed in the poor disappointed thing's

face, and with a howl of despair, he rushed back into the sea again. I

made the best time I could back to the yacht for fear he might return

with assistance."



"And didn't you ever see him again, Baron?" asked Sapphira.



"Yes, but only from the deck of the yacht as we were weighing anchor,"

said Mr. Munchausen. "I saw him and a dozen others like him doing

precisely what I thought they would do, going ashore to search me out

so as to have a little cold Munch for dinner. I'm glad they were

disappointed, aren't you?"



"Yes, indeed," said Ananias and Sapphira, but not warmly.



Ananias was silent for a moment, and then walking over to one of the

bookcases, he returned in a moment, bringing with him a huge atlas.



"Where are the Amphibian Islands, Mr. Munchausen?" he said, opening

the book. "Show them to me on the map. I'd like to print the map with

my story."



"Oh, I can't do that," said the Baron, "because they aren't on the map

any more. When I got back to Europe and told the map-makers about the

dangers to man on those islands, they said that the interests of

humanity demanded that they be lost. So they took them out of all the

geographies, and all the cyclopædias, and all the other books, so that

nobody ever again should be tempted to go there; and there isn't a

school-teacher or a sailor in the world to-day who could tell you

where they are."



"But, you know, don't you?" persisted Ananias.



"Well, I did," said the Baron; "but, really I have had to remember so

many other things that I have forgotten that. All that I know is that

they were named from the fact that they were infested by Amphibious

animals, which are animals that can live on land as well as on water."



"How strange!" said Sapphira.



"It's just too queer for anything," said Ananias, "but on the whole

I'm not surprised."



And the Baron said he was glad to hear it.



[Illustration: "I laughed in the poor disappointed thing's face, and

with a howl of despair he rushed back into the sea." _Chapter X._]









XI



THE BARON AS A RUNNER





The Twins had been on the lookout for the Baron for at least an hour,

and still he did not come, and the little Imps were beginning to feel

blue over the prospect of getting the usual Sunday afternoon story. It

was past four o'clock, and for as long a time as they could remember

the Baron had never failed to arrive by three o'clock. All sorts of

dreadful possibilities came up before their mind's eye. They pictured

the Baron in accidents of many sorts. They conjured up visions of him

lying wounded beneath the ruins of an apartment house, or something

else equally heavy that might have fallen upon him on his way from his

rooms to the station, but that he was more than wounded they did not

believe, for they knew that the Baron was not the sort of man to be

killed by anything killing under the sun.



"I wonder where he can be?" said Angelica, uneasily to her brother,

who was waiting with equal anxiety for their common friend.



"Oh, he's all right!" said Diavolo, with a confidence he did not

really feel. "He'll turn up all right, and even if he's two hours late

he'll be here on time according to his own watch. Just you wait and

see."



And they did wait and they did see. They waited for ten minutes, when

the Baron drove up, smiling as ever, but apparently a little out of

breath. I should not dare to say that he was really out of breath, but

he certainly did seem to be so, for he panted visibly, and for two or

three minutes after his arrival was quite unable to ask the Imps the

usual question as to their very good health. Finally, however, the

customary courtesies of the greeting were exchanged, and the decks

were cleared for action.



"What kept you, Uncle Munch?" asked the Twins, as they took up their

usual position on the Baron's knees.



"What what?" replied the warrior. "Kept me? Why, am I late?"



"Two hours," said the Twins. "Dad gave you up and went out for a

walk."



"Nonsense," said the Baron. "I'm never that late."



Here he looked at his watch.



"Why I do seem to be behind time. There must be something wrong with

our time-pieces. I can't be two hours late, you know."



"Well, let's say you are on time, then," said the Twins. "What kept

you?"



"A very funny accident on the railroad," said the Baron lighting a

cigar. "Queerest accident that ever happened to me on the railroad,

too. Our engine ran away."



The Twins laughed as if they thought the Baron was trying to fool

them.



"Really," said the Baron. "I left town as usual on the two o'clock

train, which, as you know, comes through in half an hour, without a

stop. Everything went along smoothly until we reached the Vitriol

Reservoir, when much to the surprise of everybody the train came to a

stand-still. I supposed there was a cow on the track, and so kept in

my seat for three or four minutes as did every one else. Finally the

conductor came through and called to the brakeman at the end of our

car to see if his brakes were all right.



"'It's the most unaccountable thing,' he said to me. 'Here's this

train come to a dead stop and I can't see why. There isn't a brake out

of order on any one of the cars, and there isn't any earthly reason

why we shouldn't go ahead.'



"'Maybe somebody's upset a bottle of glue on the track,' said I. I

always like to chaff the conductor, you know, though as far as that is

concerned, I remember once when I was travelling on a South American

Railway our train was stopped by highwaymen, who smeared the tracks

with a peculiar sort of gum. They'd spread it over three miles of

track, and after the train had gone lightly over two miles of it the

wheels stuck so fast ten engines couldn't have moved it. That was a

terrible affair."



"I don't think we ever heard of that, did we?" asked Angelica.



"I don't remember it," said Diavolo.



"Well, you would have remembered it, if you had ever heard of it,"

said the Baron. "It was too dreadful to be forgotten--not for us, you

know, but for the robbers. It was one of the Imperial trains in

Brazil, and if it hadn't been for me the Emperor would have been

carried off and held for ransom. The train was brought to a

stand-still by this gluey stuff, as I have told you, and the

desperadoes boarded the cars and proceeded to rifle us of our

possessions. The Emperor was in the car back of mine, and the robbers

made directly for him, but fathoming their intention I followed close

upon their heels.



"'You are our game,' said the chief robber, tapping the Emperor on the

shoulder, as he entered the Imperial car.



"'Hands off,' I cried throwing the ruffian to one side.



"He scowled dreadfully at me, the Emperor looked surprised, and

another one of the robbers requested to know who was I that I should

speak with so much authority. 'Who am I?' said I, with a wink at the

Emperor. 'Who am I? Who else but Baron Munchausen of the Bodenwerder

National Guard, ex-friend of Napoleon of France, intimate of the

Mikado of Japan, and famed the world over as the deadliest shot in two

hemispheres.'



"The desperadoes paled visibly as I spoke, and after making due

apologies for interfering with the train, fled shrieking from the car.

They had heard of me before.



"'I thank you, sir,' began the Emperor, as the would-be assassins

fled, but I cut him short. 'They must not be allowed to escape,' I

said, and with that I started in pursuit of the desperate fellows,

overtook them, and glued them with the gum they had prepared for our

detention to the face of a precipice that rose abruptly from the side

of the railway, one hundred and ten feet above the level. There I left

them. We melted the glue from the tracks by means of our steam heating

apparatus, and were soon booming merrily on our way to Rio Janeiro

when I was fêted and dined continuously for weeks by the people,

though strange to say the Emperor's behaviour toward me was very

cool."



"And did the robbers ever get down?" asked the Twins.



"Yes, but not in a way they liked," Mr. Munchausen replied. "The sun

came out, and after a week or two melted the glue that held them to

the precipice, whereupon they fell to its base and were shattered into

pieces so small there wasn't an atom of them to be found when a month

later I passed that way again on my return trip."



"And didn't the Emperor treat you well, Uncle Munch?" asked the Imps.



"No--as I told you he was very cool towards me, and I couldn't

understand it, then, but I do now," said the Baron. "You see he was

very much in need of ready cash, the Emperor was, and as the taxpayers

were already growling about the expenses of the Government he didn't

dare raise the money by means of a tax. So he arranged with the

desperadoes to stop the train, capture him, and hold him for ransom.

Then when the ransom came along he was going to divide up with them.

My sudden appearance, coupled with my determination to rescue him,

spoiled his plan, you see, and so he naturally wasn't very grateful.

Poor fellow, I was very sorry for it afterward, because he really was

an excellent ruler, and his plan of raising the money he needed wasn't

a bit less honest than most other ways rulers employ to obtain revenue

for State purposes."



"Well, now, let's get back to the runaway engine," said the Twins.

"You can tell us more about South America after you get through with

that. How did the engine come to run away?"



"It was simple enough," said the Baron. "The engineer, after starting

the train came back into the smoking car to get a light for his pipe,

and while he was there the coupling-pin between the engine and the

train broke, and off skipped the engine twice as fast as it had been

going before. The relief from the weight of the train set its pace to

a mile a minute instead of a mile in two minutes, and there we were at

a dead stop in front of the Vitriol Station with nothing to move us

along. When the engineer saw what had happened he fainted dead away,

because you know if a collision had occurred between the runaway

engine and the train ahead he would have been held responsible."



"Couldn't the fireman stop the engine?" asked the Twins.



"No. That is, it wouldn't be his place to do it, and these railway

fellows are queer about that sort of thing," said the Baron. "The

engineers would go out upon a strike if the railroad were to permit a

stoker to manage the engine, and besides that the stoker wouldn't

undertake to do it at a stoker's wages, so there wasn't any help to be

looked for there. The conductor happened to be nearsighted, and so he

didn't find out that the engine was missing until he had wasted ten or

twenty minutes examining the brakes, by which time, of course, the

runaway was miles and miles up the track. Then the engineer came to,

and began to wring his hands and moan in a way that was heart-rending.

The conductor, too, began to cry, and all the brakemen left the train

and took to the woods. They weren't going to have any of the

responsibility for the accident placed on their shoulders. Whether

they will ever turn up again I don't know. But I realised as soon as

anybody else that something had to be done, so I rushed into the

telegraph office and telegraphed to all the station masters between

the Vitriol Reservoir and Cimmeria to clear the track of all trains,

freight, local, or express, or somebody would be hurt, and that I

myself would undertake to capture the runaway engine. This they all

promised to do, whereupon I bade good-bye to my fellow-travellers, and

set off up the track myself at full speed. In a minute I strode past

Sulphur Springs, covering at least eight ties at a stretch. In two

minutes I thundered past Lava Hurst, where I learned that the engine

had twenty miles start of me. I made a rapid calculation mentally--I

always was strong in mental arithmetic, which showed that unless I was

tripped up or got side-tracked somewhere I might overtake the runaway

before it reached Noxmere. Redoubling my efforts, my stride increased

to twenty ties at a jump, and I made the next five miles in two

minutes. It sounds impossible, but really it isn't so. It is hard to

run as fast as that at the start, but when you have got your start the

impetus gathered in the first mile's run sends you along faster in the

second, and so your speed increases by its own force until finally you

go like the wind. At Gasdale I had gained two miles on the engine, at

Sneakskill I was only fifteen miles behind, and upon my arrival at

Noxmere there was scarcely a mile between me and the fugitive.

Unfortunately a large crowd had gathered at Noxmere to see me pass

through, and some small boy had brought a dog along with him and the

dog stood directly in my path. If I ran over the dog it would kill him

and might trip me up. If I jumped with the impetus I had there was no

telling where I would land. It was a hard point to decide either way,

but I decided in favour of the jump, simply to save the dog's life,

for I love animals. I landed three miles up the road and ahead of the

engine, though I didn't know that until I had run ten miles farther

on, leaving the engine a hundred yards behind me at every stride. It

was at Miasmatica that I discovered my error and then I tried to stop.

It was almost in vain; I dragged my feet over the ties, but could only

slow down to a three-minute gait. Then I tried to turn around and slow

up running backward; this brought my speed down ten minutes to the

mile, which made it safe for me to run into a hay-stack at the side of

the railroad just this side of Cimmeria. Then, of course, I was all

right. I could sit down and wait for the engine, which came booming

along forty minutes later. As it approached I prepared to board it,

and in five minutes was in full control. That made it easy enough for

me to get back here without further trouble. I simply reversed the

lever, and back we came faster than I can describe, and just one hour

and a half from the time of the mishap the runaway engine was restored

to its deserted train and I reached your station here in good order. I

should have walked up, but for my weariness after that exciting run,

which as you see left me very much out of breath, and which made it

necessary for me to hire that worn-out old hack instead of walking up

as is my wont."



[Illustration: "This brought my speed down ten minutes to the mile,

which made it safe for me to run into a haystack." _Chapter XI._]



"Yes, we see you are out of breath," said the Twins, as the Baron

paused. "Would you like to lie down and take a rest?"



"Above all things," said the Baron. "I'll take a nap here until your

father returns," which he proceeded at once to do.



While he slept the two Imps gazed at him curiously, Angelica, a little

suspiciously.



"Bub," said she, in a whisper, "do you think that was a true story?"



"Well, I don't know," said Diavolo. "If anybody else than Uncle Munch

had told it, I wouldn't have believed it. But he hates untruth. I know

because he told me so."



"That's the way I feel about it," said Angelica. "Of course, he can

run as fast as that, because he is very strong, but what I can't see

is how an engine ever could run away from its train."



"That's what stumps me," said Diavolo.









XII



MR. MUNCHAUSEN MEETS HIS MATCH



(Reported by Henry W. Ananias for the _Gehenna Gazette_.)





When Mr. Munchausen, accompanied by Ananias and Sapphira, after a long

and tedious journey from Cimmeria to the cool and wooded heights of

the Blue Sulphur Mountains, entered the portals of the hotel where the

greater part of his summers are spent, the first person to greet him

was Beelzebub Sandboy,--the curly-headed Imp who acted as "Head Front"

of the Blue Sulphur Mountain House, his eyes a-twinkle and his swift

running feet as ever ready for a trip to any part of the hostelry and

back. Beelzy, as the Imp was familiarly known, as the party entered,

was in the act of carrying a half-dozen pitchers of iced-water

upstairs to supply thirsty guests with the one thing needful and best

to quench that thirst, and in his excitement at catching sight once

again of his ancient friend the Baron, managed to drop two of the

pitchers with a loud crash upon the office floor. This, however, was

not noticed by the powers that ruled. Beelzy was not perfect, and as

long as he smashed less than six pitchers a day on an average the

management was disposed not to complain.



"There goes my friend Beelzy," said the Baron, as the pitchers fell.

"I am delighted to see him. I was afraid he would not be here this

year since I understand he has taken up the study of theology."



"Theology?" cried Ananias. "In Hades?"



"How foolish," said Sapphira. "We don't need preachers here."



"He'd make an excellent one," said Mr. Munchausen. "He is a lad of

wide experience and his fish and bear stories are wonderful. If he can

make them gee, as he would put it, with his doctrines he would prove a

tremendous success. Thousands would flock to hear him for his bear

stories alone. As for the foolishness of his choice, I think it is a

very wise one. Everybody can't be a stoker, you know."



At any rate, whatever the reasons for Beelzebub's presence, whether he

had given up the study of theology or not, there he was plying his old

vocation with the same perfection of carelessness as of yore, and

apparently no farther along in the study of theology than he was the

year before when he bade Mr. Munchausen "good-bye forever" with the

statement that now that he was going to lead a pious life the chances

were he'd never meet his friend again.



"I don't see why they keep such a careless boy as that," said

Sapphira, as Beelzy at the first landing turned to grin at Mr.

Munchausen, emptying the contents of one of his pitchers into the lap

of a nervous old gentleman in the office below.



"He adds an element of excitement to a not over-exciting place,"

explained Mr. Munchausen. "On stormy days here the men make bets on

what fool thing Beelzy will do next. He blacked all the russet shoes

with stove polish one year, and last season in the rush of his daily

labours he filled up the water-cooler with soft coal instead of ice.

He's a great bell-boy, is my friend Beelzy."



A little while later when Mr. Munchausen and his party had been shown

to their suite, Beelzy appeared in their drawing-room and was warmly

greeted by Mr. Munchausen, who introduced him to Mr. and Mrs. Ananias.



"Well," said Mr. Munchausen, "you're here again, are you?"



"No, indeed," said Beelzy. "I ain't here this year. I'm over at the

Coal-Yards shovellin' snow. I'm my twin brother that died three years

before I was born."



"How interesting," said Sapphira, looking at the boy through her

lorgnette.



Beelzy bowed in response to the compliment and observed to the Baron:



"You ain't here yourself this season, be ye?"



"No," said Mr. Munchausen, drily. "I've gone abroad. You've given up

theology I presume?"



"Sorter," said Beelzy. "It was lonesome business and I hadn't been at

it more'n twenty minutes when I realised that bein' a missionary ain't

all jam and buckwheats. It's kind o' dangerous too, and as I didn't

exactly relish the idea o' bein' et up by Samoans an' Feejees I made

up my mind to give it up an' stick to bell-boyin' for another season

any how; but I'll see you later, Mr. Munchausen. I've got to hurry

along with this iced-water. It's overdue now, and we've got the

kickinest lot o' folks here this year you ever see. One man here the

other night got as mad as hookey because it took forty minutes to soft

bile an egg. Said two minutes was all that was necessary to bile an

egg softer'n mush, not understanding anything about the science of

eggs in a country where hens feeds on pebbles."



"Pebbles?" cried Mr. Munchausen. "What, do they lay Roc's eggs?"



Beelzy grinned.



"No, sir--they lay hen's eggs all right, but they're as hard as Adam's

aunt."



"I never heard of chickens eating pebbles," observed Sapphira with a

frown. "Do they really relish them?"



"I don't know, Ma'am," said Beelzy. "I ain't never been on speakin'

terms with the hens, Ma'am, and they never volunteered no information.

They eat 'em just the same. They've got to eat something and up here

on these mountains there ain't anything but gravel for 'em to eat.

That's why they do it. Then when it comes to the eggs, on a diet like

that, cobblestones ain't in it with 'em for hardness, and when you

come to bite 'em it takes a week to get 'em soft, an' a steam drill to

get 'em open--an' this feller kicked at forty minutes! Most likely

he's swearin' around upstairs now because this iced-water ain't came;

and it ain't more than two hours since he ordered it neither."



"What an unreasonable gentleman," said Sapphira.



"Ain't he though!" said Beelzy. "And he ain't over liberal neither.

He's been here two weeks now and all the money I've got out of him was

a five-dollar bill I found on his bureau yesterday morning. There's

more money in theology than there is in him."



With this Beelzebub grabbed up the pitcher of water, and bounded out

of the room like a frightened fawn. He disappeared into the dark of

the corridor, and a few moments later was evidently tumbling head over

heels up stairs, if the sounds that greeted the ears of the party in

the drawing-room meant anything.



The next morning when there was more leisure for Beelzy the Baron

inquired as to the state of his health.



"Oh it's been pretty good," said he. "Pretty good. I'm all right now,

barrin' a little gout in my right foot, and ice-water on my knee, an'

a crick in my back, an' a tired feelin' all over me generally. Ain't

had much to complain about. Had the measles in December, and the mumps

in February; an' along about the middle o' May the whoopin' cough got

a holt of me; but as it saved my life I oughtn't to kick about that."



Here Beelzy looked gratefully at an invisible something--doubtless the

recollection in the thin air of his departed case of whooping cough,

for having rescued him from an untimely grave.



"That is rather curious, isn't it?" queried Sapphira, gazing intently

into the boy's eyes. "I don't exactly understand how the whooping

cough could save anybody's life, do you, Mr. Munchausen?"



"Beelzy, this lady would have you explain the situation, and I must

confess that I am myself somewhat curious to learn the details of this

wonderful rescue," said Mr. Munchausen.



"Well, I must say," said Beelzy, with a pleased smile at the very

great consequence of his exploit in the lady's eyes, "if I was a-goin'

to start out to save people's lives generally I wouldn't have thought

a case o' whoopin' cough would be of much use savin' a man from

drownin', and I'm sure if a feller fell out of a balloon it wouldn't

help him much if he had ninety dozen cases o' whoopin' cough concealed

on his person; but for just so long as I'm the feller that has to come

up here every June, an' shoo the bears out o' the hotel, I ain't never

goin' to be without a spell of whoopin' cough along about that time if

I can help it. I wouldn't have been here now if it hadn't been for

it."



"You referred just now," said Sapphira, "to shooing bears out of the

hotel. May I inquire what useful function in the ménage of a hotel a

bear-shooer performs?"



"What useful what?" asked Beelzy.



"Function--duty--what does the duty of a bear-shooer consist in?"

explained Mr. Munchausen. "Is he a blacksmith who shoes bears instead

of horses?"



"He's a bear-chaser," explained Beelzy, "and I'm it," he added. "That,

Ma'am, is the function of a bear-shooer in the menagerie of a hotel."



Sapphira having expressed herself as satisfied, Beelzebub continued.



"You see this here house is shut up all winter, and when everybody's

gone and left it empty the bears come down out of the mountains and

use it instead of a cave. It's more cosier and less windier than their

dens. So when the last guest has gone, and all the doors are locked,

and the band gone into winter quarters, down come the bears and take

possession. They generally climb through some open window somewhere.

They divide up all the best rooms accordin' to their position in bear

society and settle down to a regular hotel life among themselves."



"But what do they feed upon?" asked Sapphira.



"Oh they'll eat anything when they're hungry," said Beelzy. "Sofa

cushions, parlor rugs, hotel registers--anything they can fasten their

teeth to. Last year they came in through the cupola, burrowin' down

through the snow to get at it, and there they stayed enjoyin' life out

o' reach o' the wind and storm, snug's bugs in rugs. Year before last

there must ha' been a hundred of 'em in the hotel when I got here, but

one by one I got rid of 'em. Some I smoked out with some cigars Mr.

Munchausen gave me the summer before; some I deceived out, gettin' 'em

to chase me through the winders, an' then doublin' back on my tracks

an' lockin' 'em out. It was mighty wearin' work.



"Last June there was twice as many. By actual tab I shooed two hundred

and eight bears and a panther off into the mountains. When the last

one as I thought disappeared into the woods I searched the house from

top to bottom to see if there was any more to be got rid of. Every

blessed one of the five hundred rooms I went through, and not a bear

was left that I could see. I can tell you, I was glad, because there

was a partickerly ugly run of 'em this year, an' they gave me a pile

o' trouble. They hadn't found much to eat in the hotel, an' they was

disappointed and cross. As a matter of fact, the only things they

found in the place they could eat was a piano stool and an old hair

trunk full o' paper-covered novels, which don't make a very hearty

meal for two hundred and eight bears and a panther."



"I should say not," said Sapphira, "particularly if the novels were as

light as most of them are nowadays."



"I can't say as to that," said Beelzy. "I ain't got time to read 'em

and so I ain't any judge. But all this time I was sufferin' like

hookey with awful spasms of whoopin' cough. I whooped so hard once it

smashed one o' the best echoes in the place all to flinders, an' of

course that made the work twice as harder. So, naturally, when I found

there warn't another bear left in the hotel, I just threw myself down

anywhere, and slept. My! how I slept. I don't suppose anything ever

slept sounder'n I did. And then it happened."



Beelzy gave his trousers a hitch and let his voice drop to a stage

whisper that lent a wondrous impressiveness to his narration.



"As I was a-layin' there unconscious, dreamin' of home and father, a

great big black hungry bruin weighin' six hundred and forty-three

pounds, that had been hidin' in the bread oven in the bakery, where I

hadn't thought of lookin' for him, came saunterin' along, hummin' a

little tune all by himself, and lickin' his chops with delight at the

idee of havin' me raw for his dinner. I lay on unconscious of my

danger, until he got right up close, an' then I waked up, an' openin'

my eyes saw this great black savage thing gloatin' over me an' tears

of joy runnin' out of his mouth as he thought of the choice meal he

was about to have. He was sniffin' my bang when I first caught sight

of him."



"Mercy!" cried Sapphira, "I should think you'd have died of fright."



[Illustration: "At the first whoop Mr. Bear jumped ten feet and fell

over backwards on the floor." _Chapter XII._]



"I did," said Beelzy, politely, "but I came to life again in a minute.

'Oh Lor!' says I, as I see how hungry he was. 'This here's the end o'

me;' at which the bear looked me straight in the eye, licked his chops

again, and was about to take a nibble off my right ear when 'Whoop!' I

had a spasm of whoopin'. Well, Ma'am, I guess you know what that

means. There ain't nothin' more uncanny, more terrifyin' in the whole

run o' human noises, barrin' a German Opery, than the whoop o' the

whoopin' cough. At the first whoop Mr. Bear jumped ten feet and fell

over backwards onto the floor; at the second he scrambled to his feet

and put for the door, but stopped and looked around hopin' he was

mistaken, when I whooped a third time. The third did the business.

That third whoop would have scared Indians. It was awful. It was like

a tornado blowin' through a fog-horn with a megaphone in front of it.

When he heard that, Mr. Bear turned on all four of his heels and

started on a scoot up into the woods that must have carried him ten

miles before I quit coughin'.



"An' that's why, Ma'am, I say that when you've got to shoo bears for a

livin', an attack o' whoopin' cough is a useful thing to have around."



Saying which, Beelzy departed to find Number 433's left boot which he

had left at Number 334's door by some odd mistake.



"What do you think of that, Mr. Munchausen?" asked Sapphira, as Beelzy

left the room.



"I don't know," said Mr. Munchausen, with a sigh. "I'm inclined to

think that I am a trifle envious of him. The rest of us are not in his

class."









XIII



WRIGGLETTO





It was in the afternoon of a beautiful summer day, and Mr. Munchausen

had come up from the simmering city of Cimmeria to spend a day or two

with Diavolo and Angelica and their venerable parents. They had all

had dinner, and were now out on the back piazza overlooking the

magnificent river Styx, which flowed from the mountains to the sea,

condescending on its way thither to look in upon countless

insignificant towns which had grown up on its banks, among which was

the one in which Diavolo and Angelica had been born and lived all

their lives. Mr. Munchausen was lying comfortably in a hammock,

collecting his thoughts.



Angelica was somewhat depressed, but Diavolo was jubilant and all

because in the course of a walk they had had that morning Diavolo had

killed a snake.



"It was fine sport," said Diavolo. "He was lying there in the sun, and

I took a stick and put him out of his misery in two minutes."



Here Diavolo illustrated the process by whacking the Baron over his

waist-coat with a small malacca stick he carried.



"Well, I didn't like it," said Angelica. "I don't care for snakes, but

somehow or other it seems to me we'd ought to have left him alone. He

wasn't hurting anybody off there. If he'd come walking on our place,

that would have been one thing, but we went walking where he was, and

he had as much right to take a sun-bath there as we had."



"That's true enough," put in Mr. Munchausen, resolved after Diavolo's

whack, to side against him. "You've just about hit it, Angelica. It

wasn't polite of you in the first place, to disturb his snakeship in

his nap, and having done so, I can't see why Diavolo wanted to kill

him."



"Oh, pshaw!" said Diavolo, airily. "What's snakes good for except to

kill? I'll kill 'em every chance I get. They aren't any good."



"All right," said Mr. Munchausen, quietly. "I suppose you know all

about it; but I know a thing or two about snakes myself that do not

exactly agree with what you say. They are some good sometimes, and, as

a matter of fact, as a general rule, they are less apt to attack you

without reason than you are to attack them. A snake is rather inclined

to mind its own business unless he finds it necessary to do otherwise.

Occasionally too you'll find a snake with a truly amiable character.

I'll never forget my old pet Wriggletto, for instance, and as long as

I remember him I can't help having a warm corner for snakes in my

heart."



Here Mr. Munchausen paused and puffed thoughtfully on his cigar as a

far-away half-affectionate look came into his eye.



"Who was Wriggletto?" asked Diavolo, transferring a half dollar from

Mr. Munchausen's pocket to his own.



"Who was he?" cried Mr. Munchausen. "You don't mean to say that I have

never told you about Wriggletto, my pet boa-constrictor, do you?"



"You never told me," said Angelica. "But I'm not everybody. Maybe

you've told some other little Imps."



"No, indeed!" said Mr. Munchausen. "You two are the only little Imps I

tell stories to, and as far as I am concerned, while I admit you are

not everybody you are somebody and that's more than everybody is.

Wriggletto was a boa-constrictor I once knew in South America, and he

was without exception, the most remarkable bit of a serpent I ever

met. Genial, kind, intelligent, grateful and useful, and, after I'd

had him a year or two, wonderfully well educated. He could write with

himself as well as you or I can with a pen. There's a recommendation

for you. Few men are all that--and few boa-constrictors either, as far

as that goes. I admit Wriggletto was an exception to the general run

of serpents, but he was all that I claim for him, nevertheless."



"What kind of a snake did you say he was?" asked Diavolo.



"A boa-constrictor," said Mr. Munchausen, "and I knew him from his

childhood. I first encountered Wriggletto about ten miles out of Para

on the river Amazon. He was being swallowed by a larger

boa-constrictor, and I saved his life by catching hold of his tail and

pulling him out just as the other was getting ready to give the last

gulp which would have taken Wriggletto in completely, and placed him

beyond all hope of ever being saved."



"What was the other boa doing while you were saving Wriggletto?" asked

Diavolo, who was fond always of hearing both sides to every question,

and whose father, therefore, hoped he might some day grow up to be a

great judge, or at least serve with distinction upon a jury.



"He couldn't do anything," returned Mr. Munchausen. "He was powerless

as long as Wriggletto's head stuck in his throat and just before I got

the smaller snake extracted I killed the other one by cutting off his

tail behind his ears. It was not a very dangerous rescue on my part as

long as Wriggletto was likely to be grateful. I must confess for a

minute I was afraid he might not comprehend all I had done for him,

and it was just possible he might attack me, but the hug he gave me

when he found himself free once more was reassuring. He wound himself

gracefully around my body, squeezed me gently and then slid off into

the road again, as much as to say 'Thank you, sir. You're a brick.'

After that there was nothing Wriggletto would not do for me. He

followed me everywhere I went from that time on. He seemed to learn

all in an instant that there were hundreds of little things to be done

about the house of an old bachelor like myself which a willing serpent

could do, and he made it his business to do those things: like picking

up my collars from the floor, and finding my studs for me when they

rolled under the bureau, and a thousand and one other little services

of a like nature, and when you, Master Diavolo, try in future to say

that snakes are only good to kill and are of no use to any one, you

must at least make an exception in favour of Wriggletto."



"I will," said Diavolo, "But you haven't told us of the other useful

things he did for you yet."



"I was about to do so," said Mr. Munchausen. "In the first place,

before he learned how to do little things about the house for me,

Wriggletto acted as a watch-dog and you may be sure that nobody ever

ventured to prowl around my house at night while Wriggletto slept out

on the lawn. Para was quite full of conscienceless fellows, too, at

that time, any one of whom would have been glad to have a chance to

relieve me of my belongings if they could get by my watch-snake. Two

of them tried it one dark stormy night, and Wriggletto when he

discovered them climbing in at my window, crawled up behind them and

winding his tail about them crept down to the banks of the Amazon,

dragging them after him. There he tossed them into the river, and came

back to his post once more."



"Did you see him do it, Uncle Munch?" asked Angelica.



"No, I did not. I learned of it afterwards. Wriggletto himself said

never a word. He was too modest for that," said Mr. Munchausen. "One

of the robbers wrote a letter to the Para newspapers about it,

complaining that any one should be allowed to keep a reptile like that

around, and suggested that anyhow people using snakes in place of dogs

should be compelled to license them, and put up a sign at their gates:



                         BEWARE OF THE SNAKE!



"The man never acknowledged, of course, that he was the robber,--said

that he was calling on business when the thing happened,--but he

didn't say what his business was, but I knew better, and later on the

other robber and he fell out, and they confessed that the business

they had come on was to take away a few thousand gold coins of the

realm which I was known to have in the house locked in a steel chest.



"I bought Wriggletto a handsome silver collar after that, and it was

generally understood that he was the guardian of my place, and robbers

bothered me no more. Then he was finer than a cat for rats. On very

hot days he would go off into the cellar, where it was cool, and lie

there with his mouth wide open and his eyes shut, and catch rats by

the dozens. They'd run around in the dark, and the first thing they'd

know they'd stumble into Wriggletto's mouth; and he swallowed them and

licked his chops afterwards, just as you or I do when we've swallowed

a fine luscious oyster or a clam.



"But pleasantest of all the things Wriggletto did for me--and he was

untiring in his attentions in that way--was keeping me cool on hot

summer nights. Para as you may have heard is a pretty hot place at

best, lying in a tropical region as it does, but sometimes it is awful

for a man used to the Northern climate, as I was. The act of fanning

one's self, so far from cooling one off, makes one hotter than ever.

Maybe you remember how it was with the elephant in the poem:



  "'Oh my, oh dear!' the elephant said,

    'It is so awful hot!

  I've fanned myself for seventy weeks,

    And haven't cooled a jot.'



"And that was the way it was with me in Para on hot nights. I'd fan

and fan and fan, but I couldn't get cool until Wriggletto became a

member of my family, and then I was all right. He used to wind his

tail about a huge palm-leaf fan I had cut in the forest, so large that

I couldn't possibly handle it myself, and he'd wave it to and fro by

the hour, with the result that my house was always the breeziest place

in Para."



"Where is Wriggletto now?" asked Diavolo.



"Heigho!" sighed Mr. Munchausen. "He died, poor fellow, and all

because of that silver collar I gave him. He tried to swallow a jibola

that entered my house one night on wickedness intent, and while

Wriggletto's throat was large enough when he stretched it to take down

three jibolas, with a collar on which wouldn't stretch he couldn't

swallow one. He didn't know that, unfortunately, and he kept on trying

until the jibola got a quarter way down and then he stuck. Each

swallow, of course, made the collar fit more tightly and finally poor

Wriggletto choked himself to death. I felt so badly about it that I

left Para within a month, but meanwhile I had a suit of clothes made

out of Wriggletto's skin, and wore it for years, and then, when the

clothes began to look worn, I had the skin re-tanned and made over

into shoes and slippers. So you see that even after death he was

useful to me. He was a faithful snake, and that is why when I hear

people running down all snakes I tell the story of Wriggletto."



[Illustration: "He used to wind his tail about a fan and he'd wave it

to and fro by the hour." _Chapter XIII._]



There was a pause for a few moments, when Diavolo said, "Uncle Munch,

is that a true story you've been giving us?"



"True?" cried Mr. Munchausen. "True? Why, my dear boy, what a

question! If you don't believe it, bring me your atlas, and I'll show

you just where Para is."



Diavolo did as he was told, and sure enough, Mr. Munchausen did

exactly as he said he would, which Diavolo thought was very

remarkable, but he still was not satisfied.



"You said he could write as well with himself as you or I could with a

pen, Uncle Munch," he said. "How was that?"



"Why that was simple enough," explained Mr. Munchausen. "You see he

was very black, and thirty-nine feet long and remarkably supple and

slender. After a year of hard study he learned to bunch himself into

letters, and if he wanted to say anything to me he'd simply form

himself into a written sentence. Indeed his favourite attitude when in

repose showed his wonderful gift in chirography as well as his

affection for me. If you will get me a card I will prove it."



Diavolo brought Mr. Munchausen the card and upon it he drew the

following:



[Illustration: A snake in the form of 'UncleMunch']



"There," said Mr. Munchausen. "That's the way Wriggletto always used

to lie when he was at rest. His love for me was very affecting."









XIV



THE POETIC JUNE-BUG, TOGETHER WITH SOME REMARKS ON THE GILLYHOOLY BIRD





"Uncle Munch," said Diavolo one afternoon as a couple of bicyclers

sped past the house at breakneck speed, "which would you rather have,

a bicycle or a horse?"



"Well, I must say, my boy, that is a difficult question to answer,"

Mr. Munchausen replied after scratching his head dubiously for a few

minutes. "You might as well ask a man which he prefers, a hammock or a

steam-yacht. To that question I should reply that if I wanted to sell

it, I'd rather have a steam-yacht, but for a pleasant swing on a cool

piazza in midsummer or under the apple-trees, a hammock would be far

preferable. Steam-yachts are not much good to swing in under an apple

tree, and very few piazzas that I know of are big enough--"



"Oh, now, you know what I mean, Uncle Munch," Diavolo retorted,

tapping Mr. Munchausen upon the end of his nose, for a twinkle in Mr.

Munchausen's eye seemed to indicate that he was in one of his chaffing

moods, and a greater tease than Mr. Munchausen when he felt that way

no one has ever known. "I mean for horse-back riding, which would you

rather have?"



"Ah, that's another matter," returned Mr. Munchausen, calmly. "Now I

know how to answer your question. For horse-back riding I certainly

prefer a horse; though, on the other hand, for bicycling, bicycles are

better than horses. Horses make very poor bicycles, due no doubt to

the fact that they have no wheels."



Diavolo began to grow desperate.



"Of course," Mr. Munchausen went on, "all I have to say in this

connection is based merely on my ideas, and not upon any personal

experience. I've been horse-back riding on horses, and bicycling on

bicycles, but I never went horse-back riding on a bicycle, or

bicycling on horseback. I should think it might be exciting to go

bicycling on horse-back, but very dangerous. It is hard enough for me

to keep a bicycle from toppling over when I'm riding on a hard,

straight, level well-paved road, without experimenting with my wheel

on a horse's back. However if you wish to try it some day and will get

me a horse with a back as big as Trafalgar Square I'm willing to make

the effort."



Angelica giggled. It was lots of fun for her when Mr. Munchausen

teased Diavolo, though she didn't like it quite so much when it was

her turn to be treated that way. Diavolo wanted to laugh too, but he

had too much dignity for that, and to conceal his desire to grin from

Mr. Munchausen he began to hunt about for an old newspaper, or a lump

of coal or something else he could make a ball of to throw at him.



"Which would you rather do, Angelica," Mr. Munchausen resumed, "go to

sea in a balloon or attend a dumb-crambo party in a chicken-coop?"



"I guess I would," laughed Angelica.



"That's a good answer," Mr. Munchausen put in. "It is quite as

intelligent as the one which is attributed to the Gillyhooly bird.

When the Gillyhooly bird was asked his opinion of giraffes, he

scratched his head for a minute and said,



  "'The question hath but little wit

    That you have put to me,

  But I will try to answer it

    With prompt candidity.



  The automobile is a thing

    That's pleasing to the mind;

  And in a lustrous diamond ring

    Some merit I can find.



  Some persons gloat o'er French Chateaux;

    Some dote on lemon ice;

  While others gorge on mixed gateaux,

    Yet have no use for mice.



  I'm very fond of oyster-stew,

    I love a patent-leather boot,

  But after all, 'twixt me and you,

    The fish-ball is my favourite fruit.'"



"Hoh" jeered Diavolo, who, attracted by the allusion to a kind of bird

of which he had never heard before, had given up the quest for a paper

ball and returned to Mr. Munchausen's side, "I don't think that was a

very intelligent answer. It didn't answer the question at all."



"That's true, and that is why it was intelligent," said Mr.

Munchausen. "It was noncommittal. Some day when you are older and know

less than you do now, you will realise, my dear Diavolo, how valuable

a thing is the reply that answereth not."



Mr. Munchausen paused long enough to let the lesson sink in and then

he resumed.



"The Gillyhooly bird is a perfect owl for wisdom of that sort," he

said. "It never lets anybody know what it thinks; it never makes

promises, and rarely speaks except to mystify people. It probably has

just as decided an opinion concerning giraffes as you or I have, but

it never lets anybody into the secret."



"What is a Gillyhooly bird, anyhow?" asked Diavolo.



"He's a bird that never sings for fear of straining his voice; never

flies for fear of wearying his wings; never eats for fear of spoiling

his digestion; never stands up for fear of bandying his legs and never

lies down for fear of injuring his spine," said Mr. Munchausen. "He

has no feathers, because, as he says, if he had, people would pull

them out to trim hats with, which would be painful, and he never goes

into debt because, as he observes himself, he has no hope of paying

the bill with which nature has endowed him, so why run up others?"



"I shouldn't think he'd live long if he doesn't eat?" suggested

Angelica.



"That's the great trouble," said Mr. Munchausen. "He doesn't live

long. Nothing so ineffably wise as the Gillyhooly bird ever does live

long. I don't believe a Gillyhooly bird ever lived more than a day,

and that, connected with the fact that he is very ugly and keeps

himself out of sight, is possibly why no one has ever seen one. He is

known only by hearsay, and as a matter of fact, besides ourselves, I

doubt if any one has ever heard of him."



Diavolo eyed Mr. Munchausen narrowly.



"Speaking of Gillyhooly birds, however, and to be serious for a

moment," Mr. Munchausen continued flinching nervously under Diavolo's

unyielding gaze; "I never told you about the poetic June-bug that

worked the typewriter, did I?"



"Never heard of such a thing," cried Diavolo. "The idea of a June-bug

working a typewriter."



"I don't believe it," said Angelica, "he hasn't got any fingers."



"That shows all you know about it," retorted Mr. Munchausen. "You

think because you are half-way right you are all right. However, if

you don't want to hear the story of the June-bug that worked the

type-writer, I won't tell it. My tongue is tired, anyhow."



"Please go on," said Diavolo. "I want to hear it."



"So do I," said Angelica. "There are lots of stories I don't believe

that I like to hear--'Jack the Giant-killer' and 'Cinderella,' for

instance."



"Very well," said Mr. Munchausen. "I'll tell it, and you can believe

it or not, as you please. It was only two summers ago that the thing

happened, and I think it was very curious. As you may know, I often

have a great lot of writing to do and sometimes I get very tired

holding a pen in my hand. When you get old enough to write real long

letters you'll know what I mean. Your writing hand will get so tired

that sometimes you'll wish some wizard would come along smart enough

to invent a machine by means of which everything you think can be

transferred to paper as you think it, without the necessity of

writing. But as yet the only relief to the man whose hand is worn out

by the amount of writing he has to do is the use of the type-writer,

which is hard only on the fingers. So to help me in my work two

summers ago I bought a type-writing machine, and put it in the great

bay-window of my room at the hotel where I was stopping. It was a

magnificent hotel, but it had one drawback--it was infested with

June-bugs. Most summer hotels are afflicted with mosquitoes, but this

one had June-bugs instead, and all night long they'd buzz and butt

their heads against the walls until the guests went almost crazy with

the noise.



"At first I did not mind it very much. It was amusing to watch them,

and my friends and I used to play a sort of game of chance with them

that entertained us hugely. We marked the walls off in squares which

we numbered and then made little wagers as to which of the squares a

specially selected June-bug would whack next. To simplify the game we

caught the chosen June-bug and put some powdered charcoal on his head,

so that when he butted up against the white wall he would leave a

black mark in the space he hit. It was really one of the most exciting

games of that particular kind that I ever played, and many a rainy day

was made pleasant by this diversion.



"But after awhile like everything else June-bug Roulette as we called

it began to pall and I grew tired of it and wished there never had

been such a thing as a June-bug in the world. I did my best to forget

them, but it was impossible. Their buzzing and butting continued

uninterrupted, and toward the end of the month they developed a

particularly bad habit of butting the electric call button at the side

of my bed. The consequence was that at all hours of the night,

hall-boys with iced-water, and house-maids with bath towels, and

porters with kindling-wood would come knocking at my door and routing

me out of bed--summoned of course by none other than those horrible

butting insects. This particular nuisance became so unendurable that I

had to change my room for one which had no electric bell in it.



"So things went, until June passed and July appeared. The majority of

the nuisances promptly got out but one especially vigorous and

athletic member of the tribe remained. He became unbearable and

finally one night I jumped out of bed either to kill him or to drive

him out of my apartment forever, but he wouldn't go, and try as I

might I couldn't hit him hard enough to kill him. In sheer desperation

I took the cover of my typewriting machine and tried to catch him in

that. Finally I succeeded, and, as I thought, shook the heedless

creature out of the window promptly slamming the window shut so that

he might not return; and then putting the type-writer cover back over

the machine, I went to bed again, but not to sleep as I had hoped. All

night long every second or two I'd hear the type-writer click. This I

attributed to nervousness on my part. As far as I knew there wasn't

anything to make the type-writer click, and the fact that I heard it

do so served only to convince me that I was tired and imagined that I

heard noises.



[Illustration: "Most singular of all was the fact that consciously or

unconsciously the insect had butted out a verse." _Chapter XIV._]



"The next morning, however, on opening the machine I found that the

June-bug had not only not been shaken out of the window, but had

actually spent the night inside of the cover, butting his head against

the keys, having no wall to butt with it, and most singular of all was

the fact that, consciously or unconsciously, the insect had butted out

a verse which read:



  "'I'm glad I haven't any brains,

    For there can be no doubt

  I'd have to give up butting

    If I had, or butt them out.'"



"Mercy! Really?" cried Angelica.



"Well I can't prove it," said Mr. Munchausen, "by producing the

June-bug, but I can show you the hotel, I can tell you the number of

the room; I can show you the type-writing machine, and I have recited

the verse. If you're not satisfied with that I'll have to stand your

suspicions."



"What became of the June-bug?" demanded Diavolo.



"He flew off as soon as I lifted the top of the machine," said Mr.

Munchausen. "He had all the modesty of a true poet and did not wish to

be around while his poem was being read."



"It's queer how you can't get rid of June-bugs, isn't it, Uncle

Munch," suggested Angelica.



"Oh, we got rid of 'em next season all right," said Mr. Munchausen. "I

invented a scheme that kept them away all the following summer. I got

the landlord to hang calendars all over the house with one full page

for each month. Then in every room we exposed the page for May and

left it that way all summer. When the June-bugs arrived and saw these,

they were fooled into believing that June hadn't come yet, and off

they flew to wait. They are very inconsiderate of other people's

comfort," Mr. Munchausen concluded, "but they are rigorously bound by

an etiquette of their own. A self-respecting June-bug would no more

appear until the June-bug season is regularly open than a gentleman of

high society would go to a five o'clock tea munching fresh-roasted

peanuts. And by the way, that reminds me I happen to have a bag of

peanuts right here in my pocket."



Here Mr. Munchausen, transferring the luscious goobers to Angelica,

suddenly remembered that he had something to say to the Imps' father,

and hurriedly left them.



"Do you suppose that's true, Diavolo?" whispered Angelica as their

friend disappeared.



"Well it might happen," said Diavolo, "but I've a sort of notion that

it's 'maginary like the Gillyhooly bird. Gimme a peanut."









XV



A LUCKY STROKE





"Mr. Munchausen," said Ananias, as he and the famous warrior drove off

from the first hole at the Missing Links, "you never seem to weary of

the game of golf. What is its precise charm in your eyes,--the

health-giving qualities of the game or its capacity for bad lies?"



"I owe my life to it," replied the Baron. "That is to say to my

precision as a player I owe one of the many preservations of my

existence which have passed into history. Furthermore it is ever

varying in its interest. Like life itself it is full of hazards and no

man knows at the beginning of his stroke what will be the requirements

of the next. I never told you of the bovine lie I got once while

playing a match with Bonaparte, did I?"



"I do not recall it," said Ananias, foozling his second stroke into

the stone wall.



"I was playing with my friend Bonaparte, for the Cosmopolitan

Championship," said Munchausen, "and we were all even at the

thirty-sixth hole. Bonaparte had sliced his ball into a stubble field

from the tee, whereat he was inclined to swear, until by an odd

mischance I drove mine into the throat of a bull that was pasturing on

the fair green two hundred and ninety-eight yards distant. 'Shall we

take it over?' I asked. 'No,' laughed Bonaparte, thinking he had me.

'We must play the game. I shall play my lie. You must play yours.'

'Very well,' said I. 'So be it. Golf is golf, bull or no bull.' And

off we went. It took Bonaparte seven strokes to get on the green

again, which left me a like number to extricate my ball from the

throat of the unwelcome bovine. It was a difficult business, but I

made short work of it. Tying my red silk handkerchief to the end of my

brassey I stepped in front of the great creature and addressing an

imaginary ball before him made the usual swing back and through

stroke. The bull, angered by the fluttering red handkerchief, reared

up and made a dash at me. I ran in the direction of the hole, the bull

in pursuit for two hundred yards. Here I hid behind a tree while Mr.

Bull stopped short and snorted again. Still there was no sign of the

ball, and after my pursuer had quieted a little I emerged from my

hiding place and with the same club and in the same manner played

three. The bull surprised at my temerity threw his head back with an

angry toss and tried to bellow forth his wrath, as I had designed he

should, but the obstruction in his throat prevented him. The ball had

stuck in his pharynx. Nothing came of his spasm but a short hacking

cough and a wheeze--then silence. 'I'll play four,' I cried to

Bonaparte, who stood watching me from a place of safety on the other

side of the stone wall. Again I swung my red-flagged brassey in front

of the angry creature's face and what I had hoped for followed. The

second attempt at a bellow again resulted in a hacking cough and a

sneeze, and lo the ball flew out of his throat and landed dead to the

hole. The caddies drove the bull away. Bonaparte played eight, missed

a putt for a nine, stymied himself in a ten, holed out in twelve and I

went down in five."



"Jerusalem!" cried Ananias. "What did Bonaparte say?"



[Illustration: "Again I swung my red-flagged brassey in front of the angry

creature's face, and what I had hoped for followed." _Chapter XV._]



"He delivered a short, quick nervous address in Corsican and retired

to the club-house where he spent the afternoon drowning his sorrows in

Absinthe high-balls. 'Great hole that, Bonaparte,' said I when his

geniality was about to return. 'Yes,' said he. 'A regular lu-lu, eh?'

said I. 'More than that, Baron,' said he. 'It was a Waterlooloo.' It

was the first pun I ever heard the Emperor make."



"We all have our weak moments," said Ananias drily, playing nine from

behind the wall. "I give the hole up," he added angrily.



"Let's play it out anyhow," said Munchausen, playing three to the

green.



"All right," Ananias agreed, taking a ten and rimming the cup.



Munchausen took three to go down, scoring six in all.



"Two up," said he, as Ananias putted out in eleven.



"How the deuce do you make that out? This is only the first hole,"

cried Ananias with some show of heat.



"You gave up a hole, didn't you?" demanded Munchausen.



"Yes."



"And I won a hole, didn't I?"



"You did--but--"



"Well that's two holes. Fore!" cried Munchausen.



The two walked along in silence for a few minutes, and the Baron

resumed.



"Yes, golf is a splendid game and I love it, though I don't think I'd

ever let a good canvasback duck get cold while I was talking about it.

When I have a canvasback duck before me I don't think of anything else

while it's there. But unquestionably I'm fond of golf, and I have a

very good reason to be. It has done a great deal for me, and as I have

already told you, once it really saved my life."



"Saved your life, eh?" said Ananias.



"That's what I said," returned Mr. Munchausen, "and so of course that

is the way it was."



"I should admire to hear the details," said Ananias. "I presume you

were going into a decline and it restored your strength and vitality."



"No," said Mr. Munchausen, "it wasn't that way at all. It saved my

life when I was attacked by a fierce and ravenously hungry lion. If I

hadn't known how to play golf it would have been farewell forever to

Mr. Munchausen, and Mr. Lion would have had a fine luncheon that day,

at which I should have been the turkey and cranberry sauce and mince

pie all rolled into one."



Ananias laughed.



"It's easy enough to laugh at my peril now," said Mr. Munchausen, "but

if you'd been with me you wouldn't have laughed very much. On the

contrary, Ananias, you'd have ruined what little voice you ever had

screeching."



"I wasn't laughing at the danger you were in," said Ananias. "I don't

see anything funny in that. What I was laughing at was the idea of a

lion turning up on a golf course. They don't have lions on any of the

golf courses that I am familiar with."



"That may be, my dear Ananias," said Mr. Munchausen, "but it doesn't

prove anything. What you are familiar with has no especial bearing

upon the ordering of the Universe. They had lions by the hundreds on

the particular links I refer to. I laid the links out myself and I

fancy I know what I am talking about. They were in the desert of

Sahara. And I tell you what it is," he added, slapping his knee

enthusiastically, "they were the finest links I ever played on. There

wasn't a hole shorter than three miles and a quarter, which gives you

plenty of elbow room, and the fair green had all the qualities of a

first class billiard table, so that your ball got a magnificent roll

on it."



"What did you do for hazards?" asked Ananias.



"Oh we had 'em by the dozen," replied Mr. Munchausen. "There weren't

any ponds or stone walls, of course, but there were plenty of others

that were quite as interesting. There was the Sphynx for instance; and

for bunkers the pyramids can't be beaten. Then occasionally right in

the middle of a game a caravan ten or twelve miles long, would begin

to drag its interminable length across the middle of the course, and

it takes mighty nice work with the lofting iron to lift a ball over a

caravan without hitting a camel or killing an Arab, I can tell you.

Then finally I'm sure I don't know of any more hazardous hazard for a

golf player--or for anybody else for that matter--than a real hungry

African lion out in search of breakfast, especially when you meet him

on the hole furthest from home and have a stretch of three or four

miles between him and assistance with no revolver or other weapon at

hand. That's hazard enough for me and it took the best work I could do

with my brassey to get around it."



"You always were strong at a brassey lie," said Ananias.



"Thank you," said Mr. Munchausen. "There are few lies I can't get

around. But on this morning I was playing for the Mid-African

Championship. I'd been getting along splendidly. My record for fifteen

holes was about seven hundred and eighty-three strokes, and I was

flattering myself that I was about to turn in the best card that had

ever been seen in a medal play contest in all Africa. My drive from

the sixteenth tee was a simple beauty. I thought the ball would never

stop, I hit it such a tremendous whack. It had a flight of three

hundred and eighty-two yards and a roll of one hundred and twenty

more, and when it finally stopped it turned up in a mighty good lie on

a natural tee, which the wind had swirled up. Calling to the monkey

who acted as my caddy--we used monkeys for caddies always in Africa,

and they were a great success because they don't talk and they use

their tails as a sort of extra hand,--I got out my brassey for the

second stroke, took my stance on the hardened sand, swung my club

back, fixed my eye on the ball and was just about to carry through,

when I heard a sound which sent my heart into my boots, my caddy

galloping back to the club house, and set my teeth chattering like a

pair of castanets. It was unmistakable, that sound. When a hungry lion

roars you know precisely what it is the moment you hear it, especially

if you have heard it before. It doesn't sound a bit like the miauing

of a cat; nor is it suggestive of the rumble of artillery in an

adjacent street. There is no mistaking it for distant thunder, as some

writers would have you believe. It has none of the gently mournful

quality that characterises the soughing of the wind through the

leafless branches of the autumnal forest, to which a poet might liken

it; it is just a plain lion-roaring and nothing else, and when you

hear it you know it. The man who mistakes it for distant thunder might

just as well be struck by lightning there and then for all the chance

he has to get away from it ultimately. The poet who confounds it with

the gentle soughing breeze never lives to tell about it. He gets

himself eaten up for his foolishness. It doesn't require a Daniel come

to judgment to recognise a lion's roar on sight.



"I should have perished myself that morning if I had not known on the

instant just what were the causes of the disturbance. My nerve did not

desert me, however, frightened as I was. I stopped my play and looked

out over the sand in the direction whence the roaring came, and there

he stood a perfect picture of majesty, and a giant among lions, eyeing

me critically as much as to say, 'Well this is luck, here's breakfast

fit for a king!' but he reckoned without his host. I was in no mood to

be served up to stop his ravening appetite and I made up my mind at

once to stay and fight. I'm a good runner, Ananias, but I cannot beat

a lion in a three mile sprint on a sandy soil, so fight it was. The

question was how. My caddy gone, the only weapons I had with me were

my brassey and that one little gutta percha ball, but thanks to my

golf they were sufficient.



"Carefully calculating the distance at which the huge beast stood, I

addressed the ball with unusual care, aiming slightly to the left to

overcome my tendency to slice, and drove the ball straight through the

lion's heart as he poised himself on his hind legs ready to spring

upon me. It was a superb stroke and not an instant too soon, for just

as the ball struck him he sprang forward, and even as it was landed

but two feet away from where I stood, but, I am happy to say, dead.



"It was indeed a narrow escape, and it tried my nerves to the full,

but I extracted the ball and resumed my play in a short while, adding

the lucky stroke to my score meanwhile. But I lost the match,--not

because I lost my nerve, for this I did not do, but because I lifted

from the lion's heart. The committee disqualified me because I did not

play from my lie and the cup went to my competitor. However, I was

satisfied to have escaped with my life. I'd rather be a live runner-up

than a dead champion any day."



"A wonderful experience," said Ananias. "Perfectly wonderful. I never

heard of a stroke to equal that."



"You are too modest, Ananias," said Mr. Munchausen drily. "Too modest

by half. You and Sapphira hold the record for that, you know."



"I have forgotten the episode," said Ananias.



"Didn't you and she make your last hole on a single stroke?" demanded

Munchausen with an inward chuckle.



"Oh--yes," said Ananias grimly, as he recalled the incident. "But you

know we didn't win any more than you did."



"Oh, didn't you?" asked Munchausen.



"No," replied Ananias. "You forget that Sapphira and I were two down

at the finish."



And Mr. Munchausen played the rest of the game in silence. Ananias had

at last got the best of him.


CHAPTER I: CHARON MAKES A DISCOVERY


Charon, the Ferryman of renown, was cruising slowly along the Styx one
pleasant Friday morning not long ago, and as he paddled idly on he
chuckled mildly to himself as he thought of the monopoly in ferriage
which in the course of years he had managed to build up.

"It's a great thing," he said, with a smirk of satisfaction--"it's a
great thing to be the go-between between two states of being; to have the
exclusive franchise to export and import shades from one state to the
other, and withal to have had as clean a record as mine has been.
Valuable as is my franchise, I never corrupted a public official in my
life, and--"

Here Charon stopped his soliloquy and his boat simultaneously.  As he
rounded one of the many turns in the river a singular object met his
gaze, and one, too, that filled him with misgiving.  It was another
craft, and that was a thing not to be tolerated.  Had he, Charon, owned
the exclusive right of way on the Styx all these years to have it
disputed here in the closing decade of the Nineteenth Century?  Had not
he dealt satisfactorily with all, whether it was in the line of ferriage
or in the providing of boats for pleasure-trips up the river?  Had he not
received expressions of satisfaction, indeed, from the most exclusive
families of Hades with the very select series of picnics he had given at
Charon's Glen Island?  No wonder, then, that the queer-looking boat that
met his gaze, moored in a shady nook on the dark side of the river,
filled him with dismay.

"Blow me for a landlubber if I like that!" he said, in a hardly audible
whisper.  "And shiver my timbers if I don't find out what she's there
for.  If anybody thinks he can run an opposition line to mine on this
river he's mightily mistaken.  If it comes to competition, I can carry
shades for nothing and still quaff the B. & G. yellow-label benzine three
times a day without experiencing a financial panic.  I'll show 'em a
thing or two if they attempt to rival me.  And what a boat!  It looks for
all the world like a Florentine barn on a canal-boat."

Charon paddled up to the side of the craft, and, standing up in the
middle of his boat, cried out,

"Ship ahoy!"

There was no answer, and the Ferryman hailed her again.  Receiving no
response to his second call, he resolved to investigate for himself; so,
fastening his own boat to the stern-post of the stranger, he clambered on
board.  If he was astonished as he sat in his ferry-boat, he was
paralyzed when he cast his eye over the unwelcome vessel he had boarded.
He stood for at least two minutes rooted to the spot.  His eye swept over
a long, broad deck, the polish of which resembled that of a ball-room
floor.  Amidships, running from three-quarters aft to three-quarters
forward, stood a structure that in its lines resembled, as Charon had
intimated, a barn, designed by an architect enamoured of Florentine
simplicity; but in its construction the richest of woods had been used,
and in its interior arrangement and adornment nothing more palatial could
be conceived.

"What's the blooming thing for?" said Charon, more dismayed than ever.
"If they start another line with a craft like this, I'm very much afraid
I'm done for after all.  I wouldn't take a boat like mine myself if there
was a floating palace like this going the same way.  I'll have to see the
Commissioners about this, and find out what it all means.  I suppose
it'll cost me a pretty penny, too, confound them!"

A prey to these unhappy reflections, Charon investigated further, and the
more he saw the less he liked it.  He was about to encounter opposition,
and an opposition which was apparently backed by persons of great
wealth--perhaps the Commissioners themselves.  It was a consoling thought
that he had saved enough money in the course of his career to enable him
to live in comfort all his days, but this was not really what Charon was
after.  He wished to acquire enough to retire and become one of the smart
set.  It had been done in that section of the universe which lay on the
bright side of the Styx, why not, therefore, on the other, he asked.

"I'm pretty well connected even if I am a boatman," he had been known to
say.  "With Chaos for a grandfather, and Erebus and Nox for parents, I've
just as good blood in my veins as anybody in Hades.  The Noxes are a
mighty fine family, not as bright as the Days, but older; and we're
poor--that's it, poor--and it's money makes caste these days.  If I had
millions, and owned a railroad, they'd call me a yacht-owner.  As I
haven't, I'm only a boatman.  Bah!  Wait and see!  I'll be giving swell
functions myself some day, and these upstarts will be on their knees
before me begging to be asked.  Then I'll get up a little aristocracy of
my own, and I won't let a soul into it whose name isn't mentioned in the
Grecian mythologies.  Mention in Burke's peerage and the Elite
directories of America won't admit anybody to Commodore Charon's house
unless there's some other mighty good reason for it."

Foreseeing an unhappy ending to all his hopes, the old man clambered
sadly back into his ancient vessel and paddled off into the darkness.
Some hours later, returning with a large company of new arrivals, while
counting up the profits of the day Charon again caught sight of the new
craft, and saw that it was brilliantly lighted and thronged with the most
famous citizens of the Erebean country.  Up in the bow was a spirit band
discoursing music of the sweetest sort.  Merry peals of laughter rang out
over the dark waters of the Styx.  The clink of glasses and the popping
of corks punctuated the music with a frequency which would have delighted
the soul of the most ardent lover of commas, all of which so overpowered
the grand master boatman of the Stygian Ferry Company that he dropped
three oboli and an American dime, which he carried as a pocket-piece,
overboard.  This, of course, added to his woe; but it was forgotten in an
instant, for some one on the new boat had turned a search-light directly
upon Charon himself, and simultaneously hailed the master of the ferry-
boat.

"Charon!" cried the shade in charge of the light.  "Charon, ahoy!"

"Ahoy yourself!" returned the old man, paddling his craft close up to the
stranger.  "What do you want?"

"You," said the shade.  "The house committee want to see you right away."

"What for?" asked Charon, cautiously.

"I'm sure I don't know.  I'm only a member of the club, and house
committees never let mere members know anything about their plans.  All I
know is that you are wanted," said the other.

"Who are the house committee?" queried the Ferryman.

"Sir Walter Raleigh, Cassius, Demosthenes, Blackstone, Doctor Johnson,
and Confucius," replied the shade.

"Tell 'em I'll be back in an hour," said Charon, pushing off.  "I've got
a cargo of shades on board consigned to various places up the river.  I've
promised to get 'em all through to-night, but I'll put on a couple of
extra paddles--two of the new arrivals are working their passage this
trip--and it won't take as long as usual.  What boat is this, anyhow?"

"The _Nancy Nox_, of Erebus."

"Thunder!" cried Charon, as he pushed off and proceeded on his way up the
river.  "Named after my mother!  Perhaps it'll come out all right yet."

More hopeful of mood, Charon, aided by the two dead-head passengers, soon
got through with his evening's work, and in less than an hour was back
seeking admittance, as requested, to the company of Sir Walter Raleigh
and his fellow-members on the house committee.  He was received by these
worthies with considerable effusiveness, considering his position in
society, and it warmed the cockles of his aged heart to note that Sir
Walter, who had always been rather distant to him since he had carelessly
upset that worthy and Queen Elizabeth in the middle of the Styx far back
in the last century, permitted him to shake three fingers of his left
hand when he entered the committee-room.

"How do you do, Charon?" said Sir Walter, affably.  "We are very glad to
see you."

"Thank you, kindly, Sir Walter," said the boatman.  "I'm glad to hear
those words, your honor, for I've been feeling very bad since I had the
misfortune to drop your Excellency and her Majesty overboard.  I never
knew how it happened, sir, but happen it did, and but for her Majesty's
kind assistance it might have been the worse for us.  Eh, Sir Walter?"

The knight shook his head menacingly at Charon.  Hitherto he had managed
to keep it a secret that the Queen had rescued him from drowning upon
that occasion by swimming ashore herself first and throwing Sir Walter
her ruff as soon as she landed, which he had used as a life-preserver.

"'Sh!" he said, _sotto voce_.  "Don't say anything about that, my man."

"Very well, Sir Walter, I won't," said the boatman; but he made a mental
note of the knight's agitation, and perceived a means by which that
illustrious courtier could be made useful to him in his scheming for
social advancement.

"I understood you had something to say to me," said Charon, after he had
greeted the others.

"We have," said Sir Walter.  "We want you to assume command of this
boat."

The old fellow's eyes lighted up with pleasure.

"You want a captain, eh?" he said.

"No," said Confucius, tapping the table with a diamond-studded
chop-stick.  "No.  We want a--er--what the deuce is it they call the
functionary, Cassius?"

"Senator, I think," said Cassius.

Demosthenes gave a loud laugh.

"Your mind is still running on Senatorships, my dear Cassius.  That is
quite evident," he said.  "This is not one of them, however.  The title
we wish Charon to assume is neither Captain nor Senator; it is Janitor."

"What's that?" asked Charon, a little disappointed.  "What does a Janitor
have to do?"

"He has to look after things in the house," explained Sir Walter.  "He's
a sort of proprietor by proxy.  We want you to take charge of the house,
and see to it that the boat is kept shipshape."

"Where is the house?" queried the astonished boatman.

"This is it," said Sir Walter.  "This is the house, and the boat too.  In
fact, it is a house-boat."

"Then it isn't a new-fangled scheme to drive me out of business?" said
Charon, warily.

"Not at all," returned Sir Walter.  "It's a new-fangled scheme to set you
up in business.  We'll pay you a large salary, and there won't be much to
do.  You are the best man for the place, because, while you don't know
much about houses, you do know a great deal about boats, and the boat
part is the most important part of a house-boat.  If the boat sinks, you
can't save the house; but if the house burns, you may be able to save the
boat.  See?"

"I think I do, sir," said Charon.

"Another reason why we want to employ you for Janitor," said Confucius,
"is that our club wants to be in direct communication with both sides of
the Styx; and we think you as Janitor would be able to make better
arrangements for transportation with yourself as boatman, than some other
man as Janitor could make with you."

"Spoken like a sage," said Demosthenes.

"Furthermore," said Cassius, "occasionally we shall want to have this
boat towed up or down the river, according to the house committee's
pleasure, and we think it would be well to have a Janitor who has some
influence with the towing company which you represent."

"Can't this boat be moved without towing?" asked Charon.

"No," said Cassius.

"And I'm the only man who can tow it, eh?"

"You are," said Blackstone.  "Worse luck."

"And you want me to be Janitor on a salary of what?"

"A hundred oboli a month," said Sir Walter, uneasily.

"Very well, gentlemen," said Charon.  "I'll accept the office on a salary
of two hundred oboli a month, with Saturdays off."

The committee went into executive session for five minutes, and on their
return informed Charon that in behalf of the Associated Shades they
accepted his offer.

"In behalf of what?" the old man asked.

"The Associated Shades," said Sir Walter.  "The swellest organization in
Hades, whose new house-boat you are now on board of.  When shall you be
ready to begin work?"

"Right away," said Charon, noting by the clock that it was the hour of
midnight.  "I'll start in right away, and as it is now Saturday morning,
I'll begin by taking my day off."




CHAPTER II: A DISPUTED AUTHORSHIP


"How are you, Charon?" said Shakespeare, as the Janitor assisted him on
board.  "Any one here to-night?"

"Yes, sir," said Charon.  "Lord Bacon is up in the library, and Doctor
Johnson is down in the billiard-room, playing pool with Nero."

"Ha-ha!" laughed Shakespeare.  "Pool, eh?  Does Nero play pool?"

"Not as well as he does the fiddle, sir," said the Janitor, with a
twinkle in his eye.

Shakespeare entered the house and tossed up an obolus.  "Heads--Bacon;
tails--pool with Nero and Johnson," he said.

The coin came down with heads up, and Shakespeare went into the
pool-room, just to show the Fates that he didn't care a tuppence for
their verdict as registered through the obolus.  It was a peculiar custom
of Shakespeare's to toss up a coin to decide questions of little
consequence, and then do the thing the coin decided he should not do.  It
showed, in Shakespeare's estimation, his entire independence of those
dull persons who supposed that in them was centred the destiny of all
mankind.  The Fates, however, only smiled at these little acts of
rebellion, and it was common gossip in Erebus that one of the trio had
told the Furies that they had observed Shakespeare's tendency to kick
over the traces, and always acted accordingly.  They never let the coin
fall so as to decide a question the way they wanted it, so that
unwittingly the great dramatist did their will after all.  It was a part
of their plan that upon this occasion Shakespeare should play pool with
Doctor Johnson and the Emperor Nero, and hence it was that the coin bade
him repair to the library and chat with Lord Bacon.

"Hullo, William," said the Doctor, pocketing three balls on the break.
"How's our little Swanlet of Avon this afternoon?"

"Worn out," Shakespeare replied.  "I've been hard at work on a play this
morning, and I'm tired."

"All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," said Nero, grinning
broadly.

"You are a bright spirit," said Shakespeare, with a sigh.  "I wish I had
thought to work you up into a tragedy."

"I've often wondered why you didn't," said Doctor Johnson.  "He'd have
made a superb tragedy, Nero would.  I don't believe there was any kind of
a crime he left uncommitted.  Was there, Emperor?"

"Yes.  I never wrote an English dictionary," returned the Emperor, dryly.
"I've murdered everything but English, though."

"I could have made a fine tragedy out of you," said Shakespeare.  "Just
think what a dreadful climax for a tragedy it would be, Johnson, to have
Nero, as the curtain fell, playing a violin solo."

"Pretty good," returned the Doctor.  "But what's the use of killing off
your audience that way?  It's better business to let 'em live, I say.
Suppose Nero gave a London audience that little musicale he provided at
Queen Elizabeth's Wednesday night.  How many purely mortal beings, do you
think, would have come out alive?"

"Not one," said Shakespeare.  "I was mighty glad that night that we were
an immortal band.  If it had been possible to kill us we'd have died then
and there."

"That's all right," said Nero, with a significant shake of his head.  "As
my friend Bacon makes Ingo say, 'Beware, my lord, of jealousy.'  You
never could play a garden hose, much less a fiddle."

"What do you mean my attributing those words to Bacon?" demanded
Shakespeare, getting red in the face.

"Oh, come now, William," remonstrated Nero.  "It's all right to pull the
wool over the eyes of the mortals.  That's what they're there for; but as
for us--we're all in the secret here.  What's the use of putting on
nonsense with us?"

"We'll see in a minute what the use is," retorted the Avonian.  "We'll
have Bacon down here."  Here he touched an electric button, and Charon
came in answer.

"Charon, bring Doctor Johnson the usual glass of ale.  Get some ice for
the Emperor, and ask Lord Bacon to step down here a minute."

"I don't want any ice," said Nero.

"Not now," retorted Shakespeare, "but you will in a few minutes.  When we
have finished with you, you'll want an iceberg.  I'm getting tired of
this idiotic talk about not having written my own works.  There's one
thing about Nero's music that I've never said, because I haven't wanted
to hurt his feelings, but since he has chosen to cast aspersions upon my
honesty I haven't any hesitation in saying it now.  I believe it was one
of his fiddlings that sent Nature into convulsions and caused the
destruction of Pompeii--so there!  Put that on your music rack and fiddle
it, my little Emperor."

Nero's face grew purple with anger, and if Shakespeare had been anything
but a shade he would have fared ill, for the enraged Roman, poising his
cue on high as though it were a lance, hurled it at the impertinent
dramatist with all his strength, and with such accuracy of aim withal
that it pierced the spot beneath which in life the heart of Shakespeare
used to beat.

"Good shot," said Doctor Johnson, nonchalantly.  "If you had been a
mortal, William, it would have been the end of you."

"You can't kill me," said Shakespeare, shrugging his shoulders.  "I know
seven dozen actors in the United States who are trying to do it, but they
can't.  I wish they'd try to kill a critic once in a while instead of me,
though," he added.  "I went over to Boston one night last week, and,
unknown to anybody, I waylaid a fellow who was to play Hamlet that night.
I drugged him, and went to the theatre and played the part myself.  It
was the coldest house you ever saw in your life.  When the audience did
applaud, it sounded like an ice-man chopping up ice with a small pick.
Several times I looked up at the galleries to see if there were not
icicles growing on them, it was so cold.  Well, I did the best could with
the part, and next morning watched curiously for the criticisms."

"Favorable?" asked the Doctor.

"They all dismissed me with a line," said the dramatist.  "Said my
conception of the part was not Shakespearian.  And that's criticism!"

"No," said the shade of Emerson, which had strolled in while Shakespeare
was talking, "that isn't criticism; that's Boston."

"Who discovered Boston, anyhow?" asked Doctor Johnson.  "It wasn't
Columbus, was it?"

"Oh no," said Emerson.  "Old Governor Winthrop is to blame for that.  When
he settled at Charlestown he saw the old Indian town of Shawmut across
the Charles."

"And Shawmut was the Boston microbe, was it?" asked Johnson.

"Yes," said Emerson.

"Spelt with a P, I suppose?" said Shakespeare.  "P-S-H-A-W, Pshaw, M-U-T,
mut, Pshawmut, so called because the inhabitants are always muttering
pshaw.  Eh?"

"Pretty good," said Johnson.  "I wish I'd said that."

"Well, tell Boswell," said Shakespeare.  "He'll make you say it, and
it'll be all the same in a hundred years."

Lord Bacon, accompanied by Charon and the ice for Nero and the ale for
Doctor Johnson, appeared as Shakespeare spoke.  The philosopher bowed
stiffly at Doctor Johnson, as though he hardly approved of him, extended
his left hand to Shakespeare, and stared coldly at Nero.

"Did you send for me, William?" he asked, languidly.

"I did," said Shakespeare.  "I sent for you because this imperial
violinist here says that you wrote _Othello_."

"What nonsense," said Bacon.  "The only plays of yours I wrote were
_Ham_--"

"Sh!" said Shakespeare, shaking his head madly.  "Hush.  Nobody's said
anything about that.  This is purely a discussion of _Othello_."

"The fiddling ex-Emperor Nero," said Bacon, loudly enough to be heard all
about the room, "is mistaken when he attributes _Othello_ to me."

"Aha, Master Nero!" cried Shakespeare triumphantly.  "What did I tell
you?"

"Then I erred, that is all," said Nero.  "And I apologize.  But really,
my Lord," he added, addressing Bacon, "I fancied I detected your fine
Italian hand in that."

"No.  I had nothing to do with the _Othello_," said Bacon.  "I never
really knew who wrote it."

"Never mind about that," whispered Shakespeare.  "You've said enough."

"That's good too," said Nero, with a chuckle.  "Shakespeare here claims
it as his own."

Bacon smiled and nodded approvingly at the blushing Avonian.

"Will always was having his little joke," he said.  "Eh, Will?  How we
fooled 'em on _Hamlet_, eh, my boy?  Ha-ha-ha!  It was the greatest joke
of the century."

"Well, the laugh is on you," said Doctor Johnson.  "If you wrote _Hamlet_
and didn't have the sense to acknowledge it, you present to my mind a
closer resemblance to Simple Simon than to Socrates.  For my part, I
don't believe you did write it, and I do believe that Shakespeare did.  I
can tell that by the spelling in the original edition."

"Shakespeare was my stenographer, gentlemen," said Lord Bacon.  "If you
want to know the whole truth, he did write _Hamlet_, literally.  But it
was at my dictation."

"I deny it," said Shakespeare.  "I admit you gave me a suggestion now and
then so as to keep it dull and heavy in spots, so that it would seem more
like a real tragedy than a comedy punctuated with deaths, but beyond that
you had nothing to do with it."

"I side with Shakespeare," put in Emerson.  "I've seen his autographs,
and no sane person would employ a man who wrote such a villanously bad
hand as an amanuensis.  It's no use, Bacon, we know a thing or two.  I'm
a New-Englander, I am."

"Well," said Bacon, shrugging his shoulders as though the results of the
controversy were immaterial to him, "have it so if you please.  There
isn't any money in Shakespeare these days, so what's the use of
quarrelling?  I wrote _Hamlet_, and Shakespeare knows it.  Others know
it.  Ah, here comes Sir Walter Raleigh.  We'll leave it to him.  He was
cognizant of the whole affair."

"I leave it to nobody," said Shakespeare, sulkily.

"What's the trouble?" asked Raleigh, sauntering up and taking a chair
under the cue-rack.  "Talking politics?"

"Not we," said Bacon.  "It's the old question about the authorship of
_Hamlet_.  Will, as usual, claims it for himself.  He'll be saying he
wrote Genesis next."

"Well, what if he does?" laughed Raleigh.  "We all know Will and his
droll ways."

"No doubt," put in Nero.  "But the question of _Hamlet_ always excites
him so that we'd like to have it settled once and for all as to who wrote
it.  Bacon says you know."

"I do," said Raleigh.

"Then settle it once and for all," said Bacon.  "I'm rather tired of the
discussion myself."

"Shall I tell 'em, Shakespeare?" asked Raleigh.

"It's immaterial to me," said Shakespeare, airily.  "If you wish--only
tell the truth."

"Very well," said Raleigh, lighting a cigar.  "I'm not ashamed of it.  I
wrote the thing myself."

There was a roar of laughter which, when it subsided, found Shakespeare
rapidly disappearing through the door, while all the others in the room
ordered various beverages at the expense of Lord Bacon.




CHAPTER III: WASHINGTON GIVES A DINNER


It was Washington's Birthday, and the gentleman who had the pleasure of
being Father of his Country decided to celebrate it at the Associated
Shades' floating palace on the Styx, as the Elysium _Weekly Gossip_, "a
Journal of Society," called it, by giving a dinner to a select number of
friends.  Among the invited guests were Baron Munchausen, Doctor Johnson,
Confucius, Napoleon Bonaparte, Diogenes, and Ptolemy.  Boswell was also
present, but not as a guest.  He had a table off to one side all to
himself, and upon it there were no china plates, silver spoons, knives,
forks, and dishes of fruit, but pads, pens, and ink in great quantity.  It
was evident that Boswell's reportorial duties did not end with his labors
in the mundane sphere.

The dinner was set down to begin at seven o'clock, so that the guests, as
was proper, sauntered slowly in between that hour and eight.  The menu
was particularly choice, the shades of countless canvas-back ducks,
terrapin, and sheep having been called into requisition, and cooked by no
less a person than Brillat-Savarin, in the hottest oven he could find in
the famous cooking establishment superintended by the government.
Washington was on hand early, sampling the olives and the celery and the
wines, and giving to Charon final instructions as to the manner in which
he wished things served.

The first guest to arrive was Confucius, and after him came Diogenes, the
latter in great excitement over having discovered a comparatively honest
man, whose name, however, he had not been able to ascertain, though he
was under the impression that it was something like Burpin, or Turpin, he
said.

At eight the brilliant company was arranged comfortably about the board.
An orchestra of five, under the leadership of Mozart, discoursed sweet
music behind a screen, and the feast of reason and flow of soul began.

"This is a great day," said Doctor Johnson, assisting himself copiously
to the olives.

"Yes," said Columbus, who was also a guest--"yes, it is a great day, but
it isn't a marker to a little day in October I wot of."

"Still sore on that point?" queried Confucius, trying the edge of his
knife on the shade of a salted almond.

"Oh no," said Columbus, calmly.  "I don't feel jealous of Washington.  He
is the Father of his Country and I am not.  I only discovered the orphan.
I knew the country before it had a father or a mother.  There wasn't
anybody who was willing to be even a sister to it when I knew it.  But G.
W. here took it in hand, groomed it down, spanked it when it needed it,
and started it off on the career which has made it worth while for me to
let my name be known in connection with it.  Why should I be jealous of
him?"

"I am sure I don't know why anybody anywhere should be jealous of anybody
else anyhow," said Diogenes.  "I never was and I never expect to be.
Jealousy is a quality that is utterly foreign to the nature of an honest
man.  Take my own case, for instance.  When I was what they call alive,
how did I live?"

"I don't know," said Doctor Johnson, turning his head as he spoke so that
Boswell could not fail to hear.  "I wasn't there."

Boswell nodded approvingly, chuckled slightly, and put the Doctor's
remark down for publication in _The Gossip_.

"You're doubtless right, there," retorted Diogenes.  "What you don't know
would fill a circulating library.  Well--I lived in a tub.  Now, if I
believed in envy, I suppose you think I'd be envious of people who live
in brownstone fronts with back yards and mortgages, eh?"

"I'd rather live under a mortgage than in a tub," said Bonaparte,
contemptuously.

"I know you would," said Diogenes.  "Mortgages never bothered you--but I
wouldn't.  In the first place, my tub was warm.  I never saw a house with
a brownstone front that was, except in summer, and then the owner cursed
it because it was so.  My tub had no plumbing in it to get out of order.
It hadn't any flights of stairs in it that had to be climbed after
dinner, or late at night when I came home from the club.  It had no front
door with a wandering key-hole calculated to elude the key ninety-nine
times out of every hundred efforts to bring the two together and
reconcile their differences, in order that their owner may get into his
own house late at night.  It wasn't chained down to any particular
neighborhood, as are most brownstone fronts.  If the neighborhood ran
down, I could move my tub off into a better neighborhood, and it never
lost value through the deterioration of its location.  I never had to pay
taxes on it, and no burglar was ever so hard up that he thought of
breaking into my habitation to rob me.  So why should I be jealous of the
brownstone-house dwellers?  I am a philosopher, gentlemen.  I tell you,
philosophy is the thief of jealousy, and I had the good-luck to find it
out early in life."

"There is much in what you say," said Confucius.  "But there's another
side to the matter.  If a man is an aristocrat by nature, as I was, his
neighborhood never could run down.  Wherever he lived would be the swell
section, so that really your last argument isn't worth a stewed icicle."

"Stewed icicles are pretty good, though," said Baron Munchausen, with an
ecstatic smack of his lips.  "I've eaten them many a time in the polar
regions."

"I have no doubt of it," put in Doctor Johnson.  "You've eaten fried
pyramids in Africa, too, haven't you?"

"Only once," said the Baron, calmly.  "And I can't say I enjoyed them.
They are rather heavy for the digestion."

"That's so," said Ptolemy.  "I've had experience with pyramids myself."

"You never ate one, did you, Ptolemy?" queried Bonaparte.

"Not raw," said Ptolemy, with a chuckle.  "Though I've been tempted many
a time to call for a second joint of the Sphinx."

There was a laugh at this, in which all but Baron Munchausen joined.

"I think it is too bad," said the Baron, as the laughter subsided--"I
think it is very much too bad that you shades have brought mundane
prejudice with you into this sphere.  Just because some people with
finite minds profess to disbelieve my stories, you think it well to be
sceptical yourselves.  I don't care, however, whether you believe me or
not.  The fact remains that I have eaten one fried pyramid and countless
stewed icicles, and the stewed icicles were finer than any diamond-back
rat Confucius ever had served at a state banquet."

"Where's Shakespeare to-night?" asked Confucius, seeing that the Baron
was beginning to lose his temper, and wishing to avoid trouble by
changing the subject.  "Wasn't he invited, General?"

"Yes," said Washington, "he was invited, but he couldn't come.  He had to
go over the river to consult with an autograph syndicate they've formed
in New York.  You know, his autographs sell for about one thousand
dollars apiece, and they're trying to get up a scheme whereby he shall
contribute an autograph a week to the syndicate, to be sold to the
public.  It seems like a rich scheme, but there's one thing in the way.
Posthumous autographs haven't very much of a market, because the mortals
can't be made to believe that they are genuine; but the syndicate has got
a man at work trying to get over that.  These Yankees are a mighty
inventive lot, and they think perhaps the scheme can be worked.  The
Yankee _is_ an inventive genius."

"It was a Yankee invented that tale about your not being able to
prevaricate, wasn't it, George?" asked Diogenes.

Washington smiled acquiescence, and Doctor Johnson returned to
Shakespeare.

"I'd rather have a morning-glory vine than one of Shakespeare's
autographs," said he.  "They are far prettier, and quite as legible."

"Mortals wouldn't," said Bonaparte.

"What fools they be!" chuckled Johnson.

At this point the canvas-back ducks were served, one whole shade of a
bird for each guest.

"Fall to, gentlemen," said Washington, gazing hungrily at his bird.  "When
canvas-back ducks are on the table conversation is not required of any
one."

"It is fortunate for us that we have so considerate a host," said
Confucius, unfastening his robe and preparing to do justice to the fare
set before him.  "I have dined often, but never before with one who was
willing to let me eat a bird like this in silence.  Washington, here's to
you.  May your life be chequered with birthdays, and may ours be equally
well supplied with feasts like this at your expense!"

The toast was drained, and the diners fell to as requested.

"They're great, aren't they?" whispered Bonaparte to Munchausen.

"Well, rather," returned the Baron.  "I don't see why the mortals don't
erect a statue to the canvas-back."

"Did anybody at this board ever have as much canvas-back duck as he could
eat?" asked Doctor Johnson.

"Yes," said the Baron.  "I did.  Once."

"Oh, you!" sneered Ptolemy.  "You've had everything."

"Except the mumps," retorted Munchausen.  "But, honestly, I did once have
as much canvas-back duck as I could eat."

"It must have cost you a million," said Bonaparte.  "But even then they'd
be cheap, especially to a man like yourself who could perform miracles.
If I could have performed miracles with the ease which was so
characteristic of all your efforts, I'd never have died at St. Helena."

"What's the odds where you died?" said Doctor Johnson.  "If it hadn't
been at St. Helena it would have been somewhere else, and you'd have
found death as stuffy in one place as in another."

"Don't let's talk of death," said Washington.  "I am sure the Baron's
tale of how he came to have enough canvas-back is more diverting."

"I've no doubt it is more perverting," said Johnson.

"It happened this way," said Munchausen.  "I was out for sport, and I got
it.  I was alone, my servant having fallen ill, which was unfortunate,
since I had always left the filling of my cartridge-box to him, and
underestimated its capacity.  I started at six in the morning, and, not
having hunted for several months, was not in very good form, so, no game
appearing for a time, I took a few practice shots, trying to snip off the
slender tops of the pine-trees that I encountered with my bullets,
succeeding tolerably well for one who was a little rusty, bringing down
ninety-nine out of the first one hundred and one, and missing the
remaining two by such a close margin that they swayed to and fro as
though fanned by a slight breeze.  As I fired my one hundred and first
shot what should I see before me but a flock of these delicate birds
floating upon the placid waters of the bay!"

"Was this the Bay of Biscay, Baron?" queried Columbus, with a covert
smile at Ptolemy.

"I counted them," said the Baron, ignoring the question, "and there were
just sixty-eight.  'Here's a chance for the record, Baron,' said I to
myself, and then I made ready to shoot them.  Imagine my dismay,
gentlemen, when I discovered that while I had plenty of powder left I had
used up all my bullets.  Now, as you may imagine, to a man with no
bullets at hand, the sight of sixty-eight fat canvas-backs is hardly
encouraging, but I was resolved to have every one of those birds; the
question was, how shall I do it?  I never can think on water, so I
paddled quietly ashore and began to reflect.  As I lay there deep in
thought, I saw lying upon the beach before me a superb oyster, and as
reflection makes me hungry I seized upon the bivalve and swallowed him.
As he went down something stuck in my throat, and, extricating it, what
should it prove to be but a pearl of surpassing beauty.  My first thought
was to be content with my day's find.  A pearl worth thousands surely was
enough to satisfy the most ardent lover of sport; but on looking up I saw
those ducks still paddling contentedly about, and I could not bring
myself to give them up.  Suddenly the idea came, the pearl is as large as
a bullet, and fully as round.  Why not use it?  Then, as thoughts come to
me in shoals, I next reflected, 'Ah--but this is only one bullet as
against sixty-eight birds:' immediately a third thought came, 'why not
shoot them all with a single bullet?  It is possible, though not
probable.'  I snatched out a pad of paper and a pencil, made a rapid
calculation based on the doctrine of chances, and proved to my own
satisfaction that at some time or another within the following two weeks
those birds would doubtless be sitting in a straight line and paddling
about, Indian file, for an instant.  I resolved to await that instant.  I
loaded my gun with the pearl and a sufficient quantity of powder to send
the charge through every one of the ducks if, perchance, the first duck
were properly hit.  To pass over wearisome details, let me say that it
happened just as I expected.  I had one week and six days to wait, but
finally the critical moment came.  It was at midnight, but fortunately
the moon was at the full, and I could see as plainly as though it had
been day.  The moment the ducks were in line I aimed and fired.  They
every one squawked, turned over, and died.  My pearl had pierced the
whole sixty-eight."

Boswell blushed.

"Ahem!" said Doctor Johnson.  "It was a pity to lose the pearl."

"That," said Munchausen, "was the most interesting part of the story.  I
had made a second calculation in order to save the pearl.  I deduced the
amount of powder necessary to send the gem through sixty-seven and a half
birds, and my deduction was strictly accurate.  It fulfilled its mission
of death on sixty-seven and was found buried in the heart of the sixty-
eighth, a trifle discolored, but still a pearl, and worth a king's
ransom."

Napoleon gave a derisive laugh, and the other guests sat with incredulity
depicted upon every line of their faces.

"Do you believe that story yourself, Baron?" asked Confucius.

"Why not?" asked the Baron.  "Is there anything improbable in it?  Why
should you disbelieve it?  Look at our friend Washington here.  Is there
any one here who knows more about truth than he does?  He doesn't
disbelieve it.  He's the only man at this table who treats me like a man
of honor."

"He's host and has to," said Johnson, shrugging his shoulders.

"Well, Washington, let me put the direct question to you," said the
Baron.  "Say you aren't host and are under no obligation to be courteous.
Do you believe I haven't been telling the truth?"

"My dear Munchausen," said the General, "don't ask me.  I'm not an
authority.  I can't tell a lie--not even when I hear one.  If you say
your story is true, I must believe it, of course; but--ah--really, if I
were you, I wouldn't tell it again unless I could produce the pearl and
the wish-bone of one of the ducks at least."

Whereupon, as the discussion was beginning to grow acrimonious,
Washington hailed Charon, and, ordering a boat, invited his guests to
accompany him over into the world of realities, where they passed the
balance of the evening haunting a vaudeville performance at one of the
London music-halls.




CHAPTER IV: HAMLET MAKES A SUGGESTION


It was a beautiful night on the Styx, and the silvery surface of that
picturesque stream was dotted with gondolas, canoes, and other craft to
an extent that made Charon feel like a highly prosperous savings-bank.
Within the house-boat were gathered a merry party, some of whom were on
mere pleasure bent, others of whom had come to listen to a debate, for
which the entertainment committee had provided, between the venerable
patriarch Noah and the late eminent showman P. T. Barnum.  The question
to be debated was upon the resolution passed by the committee, that "The
Animals of the Antediluvian Period were Far More Attractive for Show
Purposes than those of Modern Make," and, singular to relate, the
affirmative was placed in the hands of Mr. Barnum, while to Noah had
fallen the task of upholding the virtues of the modern freak.  It is with
the party on mere pleasure bent that we have to do upon this occasion.
The proceedings of the debating-party are as yet in the hands of the
official stenographer, but will be made public as soon as they are ready.

The pleasure-seeking group were gathered in the smoking-room of the club,
which was, indeed, a smoking-room of a novel sort, the invention of an
unknown shade, who had sold all the rights to the club through a third
party, anonymously, preferring, it seemed, to remain in the Elysian
world, as he had been in the mundane sphere, a mute inglorious Edison.  It
was a simple enough scheme, and, for a wonder, no one in the world of
substantialities has thought to take it up.  The smoke was stored in
reservoirs, just as if it were so much gas or water, and was supplied on
the hot-air furnace principle from a huge furnace in the hold of the
house-boat, into which tobacco was shovelled by the hired man of the club
night and day.  The smoke from the furnace, carried through flues to the
smoking-room, was there received and stored in the reservoirs, with each
of which was connected one dozen rubber tubes, having at their ends amber
mouth-pieces.  Upon each of these mouth-pieces was arranged a small meter
registering the amount of smoke consumed through it, and for this the
consumer paid so much a foot.  The value of the plan was threefold.  It
did away entirely with ashes, it saved to the consumers the value of the
unconsumed tobacco that is represented by the unsmoked cigar ends, and it
averted the possibility of cigarettes.

Enjoying the benefits of this arrangement upon the evening in question
were Shakespeare, Cicero, Henry VIII., Doctor Johnson, and others.  Of
course Boswell was present too, for a moment, with his note-book, and
this fact evoked some criticism from several of the smokers.

"You ought to be up-stairs in the lecture-room, Boswell," said
Shakespeare, as the great biographer took his seat behind his friend the
Doctor.  "Doesn't the _Gossip_ want a report of the debate?"

"It does," said Boswell; "but the _Gossip_ endeavors always to get the
most interesting items of the day, and Doctor Johnson has informed me
that he expects to be unusually witty this evening, so I have come here."

"Excuse me for saying it, Boswell," said the Doctor, getting red in the
face over this unexpected confession, "but, really, you talk too much."

"That's good," said Cicero.  "Stick that down, Boz, and print it.  It's
the best thing Johnson has said this week."

Boswell smiled weakly, and said: "But, Doctor, you did say that, you
know.  I can prove it, too, for you told me some of the things you were
going to say.  Don't you remember, you were going to lead Shakespeare up
to making the remark that he thought the English language was the
greatest language in creation, whereupon you were going to ask him why he
didn't learn it?"

"Get out of here, you idiot!" roared the Doctor.  "You're enough to give
a man apoplexy."

"You're not going back on the ladder by which you have climbed, are you,
Samuel?" queried Boswell, earnestly.

"The wha-a-t?" cried the Doctor, angrily.  "The ladder--on which I
climbed?  You?  Great heavens!  That it should come to this! . . . Leave
the room--instantly!  Ladder!  By all that is beautiful--the ladder upon
which I, Samuel Johnson, the tallest person in letters, have climbed!  Go!
Do you hear?"

Boswell rose meekly, and, with tears coursing down his cheeks, left the
room.

"That's one on you, Doctor," said Cicero, wrapping his toga about him.  "I
think you ought to order up three baskets of champagne on that."

"I'll order up three baskets full of Boswell's remains if he ever dares
speak like that again!" retorted the Doctor, shaking with anger.  "He--my
ladder--why, it's ridiculous."

"Yes," said Shakespeare, dryly.  "That's why we laugh."

"You were a little hard on him, Doctor," said Henry VIII.  "He was a
valuable man to you.  He had a great eye for your greatness."

"Yes.  If there's any feature of Boswell that's greater than his nose and
ears, it's his great I," said the Doctor.

"You'd rather have him change his I to a U, I presume," said Napoleon,
quietly.

The Doctor waved his hand impatiently.  "Let's drop him," he said.
"Dropping one's biographer isn't without precedent.  As soon as any man
ever got to know Napoleon well enough to write him up he sent him to the
front, where he could get a little lead in his system."

"I wish I had had a Boswell all the same," said Shakespeare.  "Then the
world would have known the truth about me."

"It wouldn't if he'd relied on your word for it," retorted the Doctor.
"Hullo! here's Hamlet."

As the Doctor spoke, in very truth the melancholy Dane appeared in the
doorway, more melancholy of aspect than ever.

"What's the matter with you?" asked Cicero, addressing the new-comer.
"Haven't you got that poison out of your system yet?"

"Not entirely," said Hamlet, with a sigh; "but it isn't that that's
bothering me.  It's Fate."

"We'll get out an injunction against Fate if you like," said Blackstone.
"Is it persecution, or have you deserved it?"

"I think it's persecution," said Hamlet.  "I never wronged Fate in my
life, and why she should pursue me like a demon through all eternity is a
thing I can't understand."

"Maybe Ophelia is back of it," suggested Doctor Johnson.  "These women
have a great deal of sympathy for each other, and, candidly, I think you
behaved pretty rudely to Ophelia.  It's a poor way to show your love for
a young woman, running a sword through her father every night for pay,
and driving the girl to suicide with equal frequency, just to show
theatre-goers what a smart little Dane you can be if you try."

"'Tisn't me does all that," returned Hamlet.  "I only did it once, and
even then it wasn't as bad as Shakespeare made it out to be."

"I put it down just as it was," said Shakespeare, hotly, "and you can't
dispute it."

"Yes, he can," said Yorick.  "You made him tell Horatio he knew me well,
and he never met me in his life."

"I never told Horatio anything of the sort," said Hamlet.  "I never
entered the graveyard even, and I can prove an alibi."

"And, what's more, he couldn't have made the remark the way Shakespeare
has it, anyhow," said Yorick, "and for a very good reason.  I wasn't
buried in that graveyard, and Hamlet and I can prove an alibi for the
skull, too."

"It was a good play, just the same," said Cicero.

"Very," put in Doctor Johnson.  "It cured me of insomnia."

"Well, if you don't talk in your sleep, the play did a Christian service
to the world," retorted Shakespeare.  "But, really, Hamlet, I thought I
did the square thing by you in that play.  I meant to, anyhow; and if it
has made you unhappy, I'm honestly sorry."

"Spoken like a man," said Yorick.

"I don't mind the play so much," said Hamlet, "but the way I'm
represented by these fellows who play it is the thing that rubs me the
wrong way.  Why, I even hear that there's a troupe out in the western
part of the United States that puts the thing on with three Hamlets, two
ghosts, and a pair of blood-hounds.  It's called the Uncle-Tom-Hamlet
Combination, and instead of my falling in love with one crazy Ophelia, I
am made to woo three dusky maniacs named Topsy on a canvas ice-floe,
while the blood-hounds bark behind the scenes.  What sort of treatment is
that for a man of royal lineage?"

"It's pretty rough," said Napoleon.  "As the poet ought to have said,
'Oh, Hamlet, Hamlet, what crimes are committed in thy name!'"

"I feel as badly about the play as Hamlet does," said Shakespeare, after
a moment of silent thought.  "I don't bother much about this wild Western
business, though, because I think the introduction of the bloodhounds and
the Topsies makes us both more popular in that region than we should be
otherwise.  What I object to is the way we are treated by these so-called
first-class intellectual actors in London and other great cities.  I've
seen Hamlet done before a highly cultivated audience, and, by Jove, it
made me blush."

"Me too," sighed Hamlet.  "I have seen a man who had a walk on him that
suggested spring-halt and locomotor ataxia combined impersonating my
graceful self in a manner that drove me almost crazy.  I've heard my 'To
be or not to be' soliloquy uttered by a famous tragedian in tones that
would make a graveyard yawn at mid-day, and if there was any way in which
I could get even with that man I'd do it."

"It seems to me," said Blackstone, assuming for the moment a highly
judicial manner--"it seems to me that Shakespeare, having got you into
this trouble, ought to get you out of it."

"But how?" said Shakespeare, earnestly.  "That's the point.  Heaven knows
I'm willing enough."

Hamlet's face suddenly brightened as though illuminated with an idea.
Then he began to dance about the room with an expression of glee that
annoyed Doctor Johnson exceedingly.

"I wish Darwin could see you now," the Doctor growled.  "A kodak picture
of you would prove his arguments conclusively."

"Rail on, O philosopher!" retorted Hamlet.  "Rail on!  I mind your
railings not, for I the germ of an idea have got."

"Well, go quarantine yourself," said the Doctor.  "I'd hate to have one
of your idea microbes get hold of me."

"What's the scheme?" asked Shakespeare.

"You can write a play for _me_!" cried Hamlet.  "Make it a farce-tragedy.
Take the modern player for your hero, and let _me_ play _him_.  I'll bait
him through four acts.  I'll imitate his walk.  I'll cultivate his voice.
We'll have the first act a tank act, and drop the hero into the tank.  The
second act can be in a saw-mill, and we can cut his hair off on a buzz-
saw.  The third act can introduce a spile-driver with which to drive his
hat over his eyes and knock his brains down into his lungs.  The fourth
act can be at Niagara Falls, and we'll send him over the falls; and for a
grand climax we can have him guillotined just after he has swallowed a
quart of prussic acid and a spoonful of powdered glass.  Do that for me,
William, and you are forgiven.  I'll play it for six hundred nights in
London, for two years in New York, and round up with a one-night stand in
Boston."

"It sounds like a good scheme," said Shakespeare, meditatively.  "What
shall we call it?"

"Call it _Irving_," said Eugene Aram, who had entered.  "I too have
suffered."

"And let me be Hamlet's understudy," said Charles the First, earnestly.

"Done!" said Shakespeare, calling for a pad and pencil.

And as the sun rose upon the Styx the next morning the Bard of Avon was
to be seen writing a comic chorus to be sung over the moribund tragedian
by the shades of Charles, Aram, and other eminent deceased heroes of the
stage, with which his new play of _Irving_ was to be brought to an
appropriate close.

This play has not as yet found its way upon the boards, but any
enterprising manager who desires to consider it may address

_Hamlet_,
_The House-Boat_,
_Hades-on-the-Styx_.

He is sure to get a reply by return mail, unless Mephistopheles
interferes, which is not unlikely, since Mephistopheles is said to have
been much pleased with the manner in which the eminent tragedian has put
him before the British and American public.




CHAPTER V: THE HOUSE COMMITTEE DISCUSS THE POETS


"There's one thing this house-boat needs," wrote Homer in the complaint-
book that adorned the centre-table in the reading-room, "and that is a
Poets' Corner.  There are smoking-rooms for those who smoke, billiard-
rooms for those who play billiards, and a card-room for those who play
cards.  I do not smoke, I can't play billiards, and I do not know a trey
of diamonds from a silver salver.  All I can do is write poetry.  Why
discriminate against me?  By all means let us have a Poets' Corner, where
a man can be inspired in peace."

For four days this entry lay in the book apparently unnoticed.  On the
fifth day the following lines, signed by Samson, appeared:

"I approve of Homer's suggestion.  There should be a Poets' Corner here.
Then the rest of us could have some comfort.  While playing _vingt-et-un_
with Diogenes in the card-room on Friday evening a poetic member of this
club was taken with a most violent fancy, and it required the combined
efforts of Diogenes and myself, assisted by the janitor, to remove the
frenzied and objectionable member from the room.  The habit some of our
poets have acquired of giving way to their inspirations all over the club-
house should be stopped, and I know of no better way to accomplish this
desirable end than by the adoption of Homer's suggestion.  Therefore I
second the motion."

Of course the suggestion of two members so prominent as Homer and Samson
could not well he ignored by the house committee, and it reluctantly took
the subject in hand at an early meeting.

"I find here," said Demosthenes to the chairman, as the committee
gathered, "a suggestion from Homer and Samson that this house-boat be
provided with a Poets' Corner.  I do not know that I approve of the
suggestion myself, but in order to bring it before the committee for
debate I am willing to make a motion that the request be granted."

"Excuse me," put in Doctor Johnson, "but where do you find that
suggestion?  'Here' is not very definite.  Where _is_ 'here'?"

"In the complaint-book, which I hold in my hand," returned Demosthenes,
putting a pebble in his mouth so that he might enunciate more clearly.

A frown ruffled the serenity of Doctor Johnson's brow.

"In the complaint-book, eh?" he said, slowly.  "I thought house
committees were not expected to pay any attention to complaints in
complaint-books.  I never heard of its being done before."

"Well, I can't say that I have either," replied Demosthenes, chewing
thoughtfully on the pebble, "but I suppose complaint-books are the places
for complaints.  You don't expect people to write serial stories or
dialect poems in them, do you?"

"That isn't the point, as the man said to the assassin who tried to stab
him with the hilt of his dagger," retorted Doctor Johnson, with some
asperity.  "Of course, complaint-books are for the reception of
complaints--nobody disputes that.  What I want to have determined is
whether it is necessary or proper for the complaints to go further."

"I fancy we have a legal right to take the matter up," said Blackstone,
wearily; "though I don't know of any precedent for such action.  In all
the clubs I have known the house committees have invariably taken the
ground that the complaint-book was established to guard them against the
annoyance of hearing complaints.  This one, however, has been forced upon
us by our secretary, and in view of the age of the complainants I think
we cannot well decline to give them a specific answer.  Respect for age
is _de rigueur_ at all times, like clean hands.  I'll second the motion."

"I think the Poets' Corner entirely unnecessary," said Confucius.  "This
isn't a class organization, and we should resist any effort to make it or
any portion of it so.  In fact, I will go further and state that it is my
opinion that if we do any legislating in the matter at all, we ought to
discourage rather than encourage these poets.  They are always littering
the club up with themselves.  Only last Wednesday I came here with a
guest--no less a person than a recently deceased Emperor of China--and
what was the first sight that greeted our eyes?"

"I give it up," said Doctor Johnson.  "It must have been a catacornered
sight, whatever it was, if the Emperor's eyes slanted like yours."

"No personalities, please, Doctor," said Sir Walter Raleigh, the
chairman, rapping the table vigorously with the shade of a handsome gavel
that had once adorned the Roman Senate-chamber.

"He's only a Chinaman!" muttered Johnson.

"What was the sight that greeted your eyes, Confucius?" asked Cassius.

"Omar Khayyam stretched over five of the most comfortable chairs in the
library," returned Confucius; "and when I ventured to remonstrate with
him he lost his temper, and said I'd spoiled the whole second volume of
the Rubaiyat.  I told him he ought to do his rubaiyatting at home, and he
made a scene, to avoid which I hastened with my guest over to the
billiard-room; and there, stretched at full length on the pool-table, was
Robert Burns trying to write a sonnet on the cloth with chalk in less
time than Villon could turn out another, with two lines start, on the
billiard-table with the same writing materials.  Now I ask you,
gentlemen, if these things are to be tolerated?  Are they not rather to
be reprehended, whether I am a Chinaman or not?"

"What would you have us do, then?" asked Sir Walter Raleigh, a little
nettled.  "Exclude poets altogether?  I was one, remember."

"Oh, but not much of one, Sir Walter," put in Doctor Johnson,
deprecatingly.

"No," said Confucius.  "I don't want them excluded, but they should be
controlled.  You don't let a shoemaker who has become a member of this
club turn the library sofas into benches and go pegging away at
boot-making, so why should you let the poets turn the place into a verse
factory?  That's what I'd like to know."

"I don't know but what your point is well taken," said Blackstone,
"though I can't say I think your parallels are very parallel.  A
shoemaker, my dear Confucius, is somewhat different from a poet."

"Certainly," said Doctor Johnson.  "Very different--in fact, different
enough to make a conundrum of the question--what is the difference
between a shoemaker and a poet?  One makes the shoes and the other shakes
the muse--all the difference in the world.  Still, I don't see how we can
exclude the poets.  It is the very democracy of this club that gives it
life.  We take in everybody--peer, poet, or what not.  To say that this
man shall not enter because he is this or that or the other thing would
result in our ultimately becoming a class organization, which, as
Confucius himself says, we are not and must not be.  If we put out the
poet to please the sage, we'll soon have to put out the sage to please
the fool, and so on.  We'll keep it up, once the precedent is
established, until finally it will become a class club entirely--a
Plumbers' Club, for instance--and how absurd that would be in Hades!  No,
gentlemen, it can't be done.  The poets must and shall be preserved."

"What's the objection to class clubs, anyhow?" asked Cassius.  "I don't
object to them.  If we could have had political organizations in my day I
might not have had to fall on my sword to get out of keeping an
engagement I had no fancy for.  Class clubs have their uses."

"No doubt," said Demosthenes.  "Have all the class clubs you want, but do
not make one of this.  An Authors' Club, where none but authors are
admitted, is a good thing.  The members learn there that there are other
authors than themselves.  Poets' Clubs are a good thing; they bring poets
into contact with each other, and they learn what a bore it is to have to
listen to a poet reading his own poem.  Pugilists' Clubs are good; so are
all other class clubs; but so also are clubs like our own, which takes in
all who are worthy.  Here a poet can talk poetry as much as he wants, but
at the same time he hears something besides poetry.  We must stick to our
original idea."

"Then let us do something to abate the nuisance of which I complain,"
said Confucius.  "Can't we adopt a house rule that poets must not be
inspired between the hours of 11 A.M. and 5 P.M., or in the evening after
eight; that any poet discovered using more than five arm-chairs in the
composition of a quatrain will be charged two oboli an hour for each
chair in excess of that number; and that the billiard-marker shall be
required to charge a premium of three times the ordinary fee for tables
used by versifiers in lieu of writing-pads?"

"That wouldn't be a bad idea," said Sir Walter Raleigh.  "I, as a poet
would not object to that.  I do all my work at home, anyhow."

"There's another phase of this business that we haven't considered yet,
and it's rather important," said Demosthenes, taking a fresh pebble out
of his bonbonniere.  "That's in the matter of stationery.  This club,
like all other well-regulated clubs, provides its members with a suitable
supply of writing materials.  Charon informs me that the waste-baskets
last week turned out forty-two reams of our best correspondence paper on
which these poets had scribbled the first draft of their verses.  Now I
don't think the club should furnish the poets with the raw material for
their poems any more than, to go back to Confucius's shoemaker, it should
supply leather for our cobblers."

"What do you mean by raw material for poems?" asked Sir Walter, with a
frown.

"Pen, ink, and paper.  What else?" said Demosthenes.

"Doesn't it take brains to write a poem?" said Raleigh.

"Doesn't it take brains to make a pair of shoes?" retorted Demosthenes,
swallowing a pebble in his haste.

"They've got a right to the stationery, though," put in Blackstone.  "A
clear legal right to it.  If they choose to write poems on the paper
instead of boring people to death with letters, as most of us do, that's
their own affair."

"Well, they're very wasteful," said Demosthenes.

"We can meet that easily enough," observed Cassius.  "Furnish each
writing-table with a slate.  I should think they'd be pleased with that.
It's so much easier to rub out the wrong word."

"Most poets prefer to rub out the right word," growled Confucius.
"Besides, I shall never consent to slates in this house-boat.  The
squeaking of the pencils would be worse than the poems themselves."

"That's true," said Cassius.  "I never thought of that.  If a dozen poets
got to work on those slates at once, a fife corps wouldn't be a
circumstance to them."

"Well, it all goes to prove what I have thought all along," said Doctor
Johnson.  "Homer's idea is a good one, and Samson was wise in backing it
up.  The poets need to be concentrated somewhere where they will not be a
nuisance to other people, and where other people will not be a nuisance
to them.  Homer ought to have a place to compose in where the _vingt-et-
un_ players will not interrupt his frenzies, and, on the other hand, the
_vingt-et-un_ and other players should be protected from the wooers of
the muse.  I'll vote to have the Poets' Corner, and in it I move that
Cassius's slate idea be carried out.  It will be a great saving, and if
the corner we select be far enough away from the other corners of the
club, the squeaking of the slate-pencils need bother no one."

"I agree to that," said Blackstone.  "Only I think it should be
understood that, in granting the petition of the poets, we do not bind
ourselves to yield to doctors and lawyers and shoemakers and plumbers in
case they should each want a corner to themselves."

"A very wise idea," said Sir Walter.  Whereupon the resolution was
suitably worded, and passed unanimously.

Just where the Poets' Corner is to be located the members of the
committee have not as yet decided, although Confucius is strongly in
favor of having it placed in a dingy situated a quarter of a mile astern
of the house-boat, and connected therewith by a slight cord, which can be
easily cut in case the squeaking of the poets' slate-pencils becomes too
much for the nervous system of the members who have no corner of their
own.




CHAPTER VI: SOME THEORIES, DARWINIAN AND OTHERWISE


"I observe," said Doctor Darwin, looking up from a perusal of an asbestos
copy of the _London Times_--"I observe that an American professor has
discovered that monkeys talk.  I consider that a very interesting fact."

"It undoubtedly is," observed Doctor Livingstone, "though hardly new.  I
never said anything about it over in the other world, but I discovered
years ago in Africa that monkeys were quite as well able to hold a
sustained conversation with each other as most men are."

"And I, too," put in Baron Munchausen, "have frequently conversed with
monkeys.  I made myself a master of their idioms during my brief sojourn
in--ah--in--well, never mind where.  I never could remember the names of
places.  The interesting point is that at one period of my life I was a
master of the monkey language.  I have even gone so far as to write a
sonnet in Simian, which was quite as intelligible to the uneducated as
nine-tenths of the sonnets written in English or American."

"Do you mean to say that you could acquire the monkey accent?" asked
Doctor Darwin, immediately interested.

"In most instances," returned the Baron, suavely, "though of course not
in all.  I found the same difficulty in some cases that the German or the
Chinaman finds when he tries to speak French.  A Chinaman can no more say
Trocadero, for instance, as the Frenchman says it, than he can fly.  That
peculiar throaty aspirate the Frenchman gives to the first syllable, as
though it were spelled trhoque, is utterly beyond the Chinese--and beyond
the American, too, whose idea of the tonsillar aspirate leads him to
speak of the trochedeero, naturally falling back upon troches to help him
out of his laryngeal difficulties."

"You ought to have been on the staff of _Punch_, Baron," said Thackeray,
quietly.  "That joke would have made you immortal."

"I _am_ immortal," said the Baron.  "But to return to our discussion of
the Simian tongue: as I was saying, there were some little points about
the accent that I could never get, and, as in the case of the German and
Chinaman with the French language, the trouble was purely physical.  When
you consider that in polite Simian society most of the talkers converse
while swinging by their tails from the limb of a tree, with a sort of
droning accent, which results from their swaying to and fro, you will see
at once why it was that I, deprived by nature of the necessary apparatus
with which to suspend myself in mid-air, was unable to quite catch the
quality which gives its chief charm to monkey-talk."

"I should hardly think that a man of your fertile resources would have
let so small a thing as that stand in his way," said Doctor Livingstone.
"When a man is able to make a reputation for himself like yours, in which
material facts are never allowed to interfere with his doing what he sets
out to do, he ought not to be daunted by the need of a tail.  If you
could make a cherry-tree grow out of a deer's head, I fail to see why you
could not personally grow a tail, or anything else you might happen to
need for the attainment of your ends."

"I was not so anxious to get the accent as all that," returned the Baron.
"I don't think it is necessary for a man to make a monkey of himself just
for the pleasure of mastering a language.  Reasoning similarly, a man to
master the art of braying in a fashion comprehensible to the jackass of
average intellect should make a jackass of himself, cultivate his ears,
and learn to kick, so as properly to punctuate his sentences after the
manner of most conversational beasts of that kind."

"Then you believe that jackasses talk, too, do you?" asked Doctor Darwin.

"Why not?" said the Baron.  "If monkeys, why not donkeys?  Certainly they
do.  All creatures have some means of communicating their thoughts to
each other.  Why man in his conceit should think otherwise I don't know,
unless it be that the birds and beasts in their conceit probably think
that they alone of all the creatures in the world can talk."

"I haven't a doubt," said Doctor Livingstone, "that monkeys listening to
men and women talking think they are only jabbering."

"They're not far from wrong in most cases if they do," said Doctor
Johnson, who up to this time had been merely an interested listener.
"I've thought that many a time myself."

"Which is perhaps, in a slight degree, a confirmation of my theory," put
in Darwin.  "If Doctor Johnson's mind runs in the same channels that the
monkey's mind runs in, why may we not say that Doctor Johnson, being a
man, has certain qualities of the monkey, and is therefore, in a sense,
of the same strain?"

"You may say what you please," retorted Johnson, wrathfully, "but I'll
make you prove what you say about me."

"I wouldn't if I were you," said Doctor Livingstone, in a peace-making
spirit.  "It would not be a pleasant task for you, compelling our friend
to prove you descended from the ape.  I should think you'd prefer to make
him leave it unproved."

"Have monkeys Boswells?" queried Thackeray.

"I don't know anything about 'em," said Johnson, petulantly.

"No more do I," said Darwin, "and I didn't mean to be offensive, my dear
Johnson.  If I claim Simian ancestry for you, I claim it equally for
myself."

"Well, I'm no snob," said Johnson, unmollified.  "If you want to brag
about your ancestors, do it.  Leave mine alone.  Stick to your own
genealogical orchard."

"Well, I believe fully that we are all descended from the ape," said
Munchausen.  "There isn't any doubt in my mind that before the flood all
men had tails.  Noah had a tail.  Shem, Ham, and Japheth had tails.  It's
perfectly reasonable to believe it.  The Ark in a sense proved it.  It
would have been almost impossible for Noah and his sons to construct the
Ark in the time they did with the assistance of only two hands apiece.
Think, however, of how fast they could work with the assistance of that
third arm.  Noah could hammer a clapboard on to the Ark with two hands
while grasping a saw and cutting a new board or planing it off with his
tail.  So with the others.  We all know how much a third hand would help
us at times."

"But how do you account for its disappearance?" put in Doctor
Livingstone.  "Is it likely they would dispense with such a useful
adjunct?"

"No, it isn't; but there are various ways of accounting for its loss,"
said Munchausen.  "They may have overworked it building the Ark; Shem,
Ham, or Japheth may have had his caught in the door of the Ark and cut
off in the hurry of the departure; plenty of things may have happened to
eliminate it.  Men lose their hair and their teeth; why might not a man
lose a tail?  Scientists say that coming generations far in the future
will be toothless and bald.  Why may it not be that through causes
unknown to us we are similarly deprived of something our forefathers
had?"

"The only reason for man's losing his hair is that he wears a hat all the
time," said Livingstone.  "The Derby hat is the enemy of hair.  It is
hot, and dries up the scalp.  You might as well try to raise watermelons
in the Desert of Sahara as to try to raise hair under the modern hat.  In
fact, the modern hat is a furnace."

"Well, it's a mighty good furnace," observed Munchausen.  "You don't have
to put coal on the modern hat."

"Perhaps," interposed Thackeray, "the ancients wore their hats on their
tails."

"Well, I have a totally different theory," said Johnson.

"You always did have," observed Munchausen.

"Very likely," said Johnson.  "To be commonplace never was my ambition."

"What is your theory?" queried Livingstone.

"Well--I don't know," said Johnson, "if it be worth expressing."

"It may be worth sending by freight," interrupted Thackeray.  "Let us
have it."

"Well, I believe," said Johnson--"I believe that Adam was a monkey."

"He behaved like one," ejaculated Thackeray.

"I believe that the forbidden tree was a tender one, and therefore the
only one upon which Adam was forbidden to swing by his tail," said
Johnson.

"Clear enough--so far," said Munchausen.

"But that the possession of tails by Adam and Eve entailed a love of
swinging thereby, and that they could not resist the temptation to swing
from every limb in Eden, and that therefore, while Adam was off swinging
on other trees, Eve took a swing on the forbidden tree; that Adam,
returning, caught her in the act, and immediately gave way himself and
swung," said Johnson.

"Then you eliminate the serpent?" queried Darwin.

"Not a bit of it," Johnson answered.  "The serpent was the tail.  Look at
most snakes to-day.  What are they but unattached tails?"

"They do look it," said Darwin, thoughtfully.

"Why, it's clear as day," said Johnson.  "As punishment Adam and Eve lost
their tails, and the tail itself was compelled to work for a living and
do its own walking."

"I never thought of that," said Darwin.  "It seems reasonable."

"It is reasonable," said Johnson.

"And the snakes of the present day?" queried Thackeray.

"I believe to be the missing tails of men," said Johnson.  "Somewhere in
the world is a tail for every man and woman and child.  Where one's tail
is no one can ever say, but that it exists simultaneously with its owner
I believe.  The abhorrence man has for snakes is directly attributable to
his abhorrence for all things which have deprived him of something that
is good.  If Adam's tail had not tempted him to swing on the forbidden
tree, we should all of us have been able through life to relax from
business cares after the manner of the monkey, who is happy from morning
until night."

"Well, I can't see that it does us any good to sit here and discuss this
matter," said Doctor Livingstone.  "We can't reach any conclusion.  The
only way to settle the matter, it seems to me, is to go directly to Adam,
who is a member of this club, and ask him how it was."

"That's a great idea," said Thackeray, scornfully.  "You'd look well
going up to a man and saying, 'Excuse me, sir, but--ah--were you ever a
monkey?'"

"To say nothing of catechising a man on the subject of an old and
dreadful scandal," put in Munchausen.  "I'm surprised at you,
Livingstone.  African etiquette seems to have ruined your sense of
propriety."

"I'd just as lief ask him," said Doctor Johnson.  "Etiquette?  Bah!  What
business has etiquette to stand in the way of human knowledge?
Conventionality is the last thing men of brains should strive after, and
I, for one, am not going to be bound by it."

Here Doctor Johnson touched the electric bell, and in an instant the
shade of a buttons appeared.

"Boy, is Adam in the club-house to-day?" asked the sage.

"I'll go and see, sir," said the boy, and he immediately departed.

"Good boy that," said Thackeray.

"Yes; but the service in this club is dreadful, considering what we might
have," said Darwin.  "With Aladdin a member of this club, I don't see why
we can't have his lamp with genii galore to respond.  It certainly would
be more economical."

"True; but I, for one, don't care to fool with genii," said Munchausen.
"When one member can summon a servant who is strong enough to take
another member and do him up in a bottle and cast him into the sea, I
have no use for the system.  Plain ordinary mortal shades are good enough
for me."

As Munchausen spoke, the boy returned.

"Mr. Adam isn't here to-day, sir," he said, addressing Doctor Johnson.
"And Charon says he's not likely to be here, sir, seeing as how his
account is closed, not having been settled for three months."

"Good," said Thackeray.  "I was afraid he was here.  I don't want to have
him asked about his Eden experiences in my behalf.  That's personality."

"Well, then, there's only one other thing to do," said Darwin.
"Munchausen claims to be able to speak Simian.  He might seek out some of
the prehistoric monkeys and put the question to them."

"No, thank you," said Munchausen.  "I'm a little rusty in the language,
and, besides, you talk like an idiot.  You might as well speak of the
human language as the Simian language.  There are French monkeys who
speak monkey French, African monkeys who talk the most barbarous kind of
Zulu monkey patois, and Congo monkey slang, and so on.  Let Johnson send
his little Boswell out to drum up information.  If there is anything to
be found out he'll get it, and then he can tell it to us.  Of course he
may get it all wrong, but it will be entertaining, and we'll never know
any difference."

Which seemed to the others a good idea, but whatever came of it I have
not been informed.




CHAPTER VII: A DISCUSSION AS TO LADIES' DAY


"I met Queen Elizabeth just now on the Row," said Raleigh, as he entered
the house-boat and checked his cloak.

"Indeed?" said Confucius.  "What if you did?  Other people have met Queen
Elizabeth.  There's nothing original about that."

"True; but she made a suggestion to me about this house-boat which I
think is a good one.  She says the women are all crazy to see the inside
of it," said Raleigh.

"Thus proving that immortal woman is no different from mortal woman,"
retorted Confucius.  "They want to see the inside of everything.
Curiosity, thy name is woman."

"Well, I am sure I don't see why men should arrogate to themselves the
sole right to an investigating turn of mind," said Raleigh, impatiently.
"Why shouldn't the ladies want to see the inside of this club-house?  It
is a compliment to us that they should, and I for one am in favor of
letting them, and I am going to propose that in the Ides of March we give
a ladies' day here."

"Then I shall go South for my health in the Ides of March," said
Confucius, angrily.  "What on earth is a club for if it isn't to enable
men to get away from their wives once in a while?  When do people go to
clubs?  When they are on their way home--that's when; and the more a
man's at home in his club, the less he's at home when he's at home.  I
suppose you'll be suggesting a children's day next, and after that a
parrot's or a canary-bird's day."

"I had no idea you were such a woman-hater," said Raleigh, in
astonishment.  "What's the matter?  Were you ever disappointed in love?"

"I?  How absurd!" retorted Confucius, reddening.  "The idea of _my_ ever
being disappointed in love!  I never met the woman who could bring me to
my knees, although I was married in the other world.  What became of Mrs.
C. I never inquired.  She may be in China yet, for aught I know.  I
regard death as a divorce."

"Your wife must be glad of it," said Raleigh, somewhat ungallantly; for,
to tell the truth, he was nettled by Confucius's demeanor.  "I didn't
know, however, but that since you escaped from China and came here to
Hades you might have fallen in love with some spirit of an age subsequent
to your own--Mary Queen of Scots, or Joan of Arc, or some other spook--who
rejected you.  I can't account for your dislike of women otherwise."

"Not I," said Confucius.  "Hades would have a less classic name than it
has for me if I were hampered with a family.  But go along and have your
ladies' day here, and never mind my reasons for preferring my own society
to that of the fair sex.  I can at least stay at home that day.  What do
you propose to do--throw open the house to the wives of members, or to
all ladies, irrespective of their husbands' membership here?"

"I think the latter plan would be the better," said Raleigh.  "Otherwise
Queen Elizabeth, to whom I am indebted for the suggestion, would be
excluded.  She never married, you know."

"Didn't she?" said Confucius.  "No, I didn't know it; but that doesn't
prove anything.  When I went to school we didn't study the history of the
Elizabethan period.  She didn't have absolute sway over England, then?"

"She had; but what of that?" queried Raleigh.

"Do you mean to say that she lived and died an old maid from choice?"
demanded Confucius.

"Certainly I do," said Raleigh.  "And why should I not tell you that?"

"For a very good and sufficient reason," retorted Confucius, "which is,
in brief, that I am not a marine.  I may dislike women, my dear Raleigh,
but I know them better than you do, gallant as you are; and when you tell
me in one and the same moment that a woman holding absolute sway over men
yet lived and died an old maid, you must not be indignant if I smile and
bite the end of my thumb, which is the Chinese way of saying that's all
in your eye, Betty Martin."

"Believe it or not, you poor old back number," retorted Raleigh, hotly.
"It alters nothing.  Queen Elizabeth could have married a hundred times
over if she had wished.  I know I lost my head there completely."

"That shows, Sir Walter," said Dryden, with a grin, "how wrong you are.
You lost your head to King James.  Hi!  Shakespeare, here's a man doesn't
know who chopped his head off."

Raleigh's face flushed scarlet.  "'Tis better to have had a head and lost
it," he cried, "than never to have had a head at all!  Mark you, Dryden,
my boy, it ill befits you to scoff at me for my misfortune, for dust thou
art, and to dust thou hast returned, if word from t'other side about thy
books and that which in and on them lies be true."

"Whate'er be said about my books," said Dryden, angrily, "be they read or
be they not, 'tis mine they are, and none there be who dare dispute their
authorship."

"Thus proving that men, thank Heaven, are still sane," ejaculated Doctor
Johnson.  "To assume the authorship of Dryden would be not so much a
claim, my friend, as a confession."

"Shades of the mighty Chow!" cried Confucius.  "An' will ye hear the
poets squabble!  Egad!  A ladies' day could hardly introduce into our
midst a more diverting disputation."

"We're all getting a little high-flown in our phraseology," put in
Shakespeare at this point.  "Let's quit talking in blank-verse and come
down to business.  _I_ think a ladies' day would be great sport.  I'll
write a poem to read on the occasion."

"Then I oppose it with all my heart," said Doctor Johnson.  "Why do you
always want to make our entertainments commonplace?  Leave occasional
poems to mortals.  I never knew an occasional poem yet that was worthy of
an immortal."

"That's precisely why I want to write one occasional poem.  I'd make it
worthy," Shakespeare answered.  "Like this, for instance:

   _Most fair, most sweet, most beauteous of ladies_,
   _The greatest charm in all ye realm of Hades_.

Why, my dear Doctor, such an opportunity for rhyming Hades with ladies
should not be lost."

"That just proves what I said," said Johnson.  "Any idiot can make ladies
rhyme with Hades.  It requires absolute genius to avoid the temptation.
You are great enough to make Hades rhyme with bicycle if you choose to do
it--but no, you succumb to the temptation to be commonplace.  Bah!  One
of these modern drawing-room poets with three sections to his name
couldn't do worse."

"On general principles," said Raleigh, "Johnson is right.  We invite
these people here to see our club-house, not to give them an exhibition
of our metrical powers, and I think all exercises of a formal nature
should be frowned upon."

"Very well," said Shakespeare.  "Go ahead.  Have your own way about it.
Get out your brow and frown.  I'm perfectly willing to save myself the
trouble of writing a poem.  Writing real poetry isn't easy, as you
fellows would have discovered for yourselves if you'd ever tried it."

"To pass over the arrogant assumption of the gentleman who has just
spoken, with the silence due to a proper expression of our contempt
therefor," said Dryden, slowly, "I think in case we do have a ladies' day
here we should exercise a most careful supervision over the invitation
list.  For instance, wouldn't it be awkward for our good friend Henry the
Eighth to encounter the various Mrs. Henrys here?  Would it not likewise
be awkward for them to meet each other?"

"Your point is well taken," said Doctor Johnson.  "I don't know whether
the King's matrimonial ventures are on speaking terms with each other or
not, but under any circumstances it would hardly be a pleasing spectacle
for Katharine of Arragon to see Henry running his legs off getting cream
and cakes for Anne Boleyn; nor would Anne like it much if, on the other
hand, Henry chose to behave like a gentleman and a husband to Jane
Seymour or Katharine Parr.  I think, if the members themselves are to
send out the invitations, they should each be limited to two cards, with
the express understanding that no member shall be permitted to invite
more than one wife."

"That's going to be awkward," said Raleigh, scratching his head
thoughtfully.  "Henry is such a hot-headed fellow that he might resent
the stipulation."

"I think he would," said Confucius.  "I think he'd be as mad as a hatter
at your insinuation that he would invite any of his wives, if all I hear
of him is true; and what I've heard, Wolsey has told me."

"He knew a thing or two about Henry," said Shakespeare.  "If you don't
believe it, just read that play of mine that Beaumont and
Fletcher--er--ah--thought so much of."

"You came near giving your secret away that time, William," said Johnson,
with a sly smile, and giving the Avonian a dig between the ribs.

"Secret!  I haven't any secret," said Shakespeare, a little acridly.
"It's the truth I'm telling you.  Beaumont and Fletcher _did_ admire
_Henry the Eighth_."

"Thereby showing their conceit, eh?" said Johnson.

"Oh, of course, I didn't write anything, did I?" cried Shakespeare.
"Everybody wrote my plays but me.  I'm the only person that had no hand
in Shakespeare.  It seems to me that joke is about worn out, Doctor.  I'm
getting a little tired of it myself; but if it amuses you, why, keep it
up.  _I_ know who wrote my plays, and whatever you may say cannot affect
the facts.  Next thing you fellows will be saying that I didn't write my
own autographs?"

"I didn't say that," said Johnson, quietly.  "Only there is no internal
evidence in your autographs that you knew how to spell your name if you
did.  A man who signs his name Shixpur one day and Shikespeare the next
needn't complain if the Bank of Posterity refuses to honor his check."

"They'd honor my check quick enough these days," retorted Shakespeare.
"When a man's autograph brings five thousand dollars, or one thousand
pounds, in the auction-room, there isn't a bank in the world fool enough
to decline to honor any check he'll sign under a thousand dollars, or two
hundred pounds."

"I fancy you're right," put in Raleigh.  "But your checks or your plays
have nothing to do with ladies' day.  Let's get to some conclusion in
this matter."

"Yes," said Confucius.  "Let's.  Ladies' day is becoming a dreadful bore,
and if we don't hurry up the billiard-room will be full."

"Well, I move we get up a petition to the council to have it," said
Dryden.

"I agree," said Confucius, "and I'll sign it.  If there's one way to
avoid having ladies' day in the future, it's to have one now and be done
with it."

"All right," said Shakespeare.  "I'll sign too."

"As--er--Shixpur or Shikespeare?" queried Johnson.

"Let him alone," said Raleigh.  "He's getting sensitive about that; and
what you need to learn more than anything else is that it isn't manners
to twit a man on facts.  What's bothering you, Dryden?  You look like a
man with an idea."

"It has just occurred to me," said Dryden, "that while we can safely
leave the question of Henry the Eighth and his wives to the wisdom of the
council, we ought to pay some attention to the advisability of inviting
Lucretia Borgia.  I'd hate to eat any supper if she came within a mile of
the banqueting-hall.  If she comes you'll have to appoint a tasting
committee before I'll touch a drop of punch or eat a speck of salad."

"We might recommend the appointment of Raleigh to look after the fair
Lucretia and see that she has no poison with her, or if she has, to keep
her from dropping it into the salads," said Confucius, with a sidelong
glance at Raleigh.  "He's the especial champion of woman in this club,
and no doubt would be proud of the distinction."

"I would with most women," said Raleigh.  "But I draw the line at
Lucretia Borgia."

And so a petition was drawn up, signed, and sent to the council, and
they, after mature deliberation, decided to have the ladies' day, to
which all the ladies in Hades, excepting Lucretia Borgia and Delilah,
were to be duly invited, only the date was not specified.  Delilah was
excluded at the request of Samson, whose convincing muscles, rather than
his arguments, completely won over all opposition to his proposition.




CHAPTER VIII: A DISCONTENTED SHADE


"It seems to me," said Shakespeare, wearily, one afternoon at the
club--"that this business of being immortal is pretty dull.  Didn't
somebody once say he'd rather ride fifty years on a trolley in Europe
than on a bicycle in Cathay?"

"I never heard any such remark by any self-respecting person," said
Johnson.

"I said something like it," observed Tennyson.

Doctor Johnson looked around to see who it was that spoke.

"You?" he cried.  "And who, pray, may you be?"

"My name is Tennyson," replied the poet.

"And a very good name it is," said Shakespeare.

"I am not aware that I ever heard the name before," said Doctor Johnson.
"Did you make it yourself?"

"I did," said the late laureate, proudly.

"In what pursuit?" asked Doctor Johnson.

"Poetry," said Tennyson.  "I wrote 'Locksley Hall' and 'Come into the
Garden, Maude.'"

"Humph!" said Doctor Johnson.  "I never read 'em."

"Well, why should you have read them?" snarled Carlyle.  "They were
written after you moved over here, and they were good stuff.  You needn't
think because you quit, the whole world put up its shutters and went out
of business.  I did a few things myself which I fancy you never heard
of."

"Oh, as for that," retorted Doctor Johnson, with a smile, "I've heard of
you; you are the man who wrote the life of Frederick the Great in nine
hundred and two volumes--"

"Seven!" snapped Carlyle.

"Well, seven then," returned Johnson.  "I never saw the work, but I heard
Frederick speaking of it the other day.  Bonaparte asked him if he had
read it, and Frederick said no, he hadn't time.  Bonaparte cried,
'Haven't time?  Why, my dear king, you've got all eternity.'  'I know
it,' replied Frederick, 'but that isn't enough.  Read a page or two, my
dear Napoleon, and you'll see why.'"

"Frederick will have his joke," said Shakespeare, with a wink at Tennyson
and a smile for the two philosophers, intended, no doubt, to put them in
a more agreeable frame of mind.  "Why, he even asked me the other day why
I never wrote a tragedy about him, completely ignoring the fact that he
came along many years after I had departed.  I spoke of that, and he
said, 'Oh, I was only joking.'  I apologized.  'I didn't know that,' said
I.  'And why should you?' said he.  'You're English.'"

"A very rude remark," said Johnson.  "As if we English were incapable of
seeing a joke!"

"Exactly," put in Carlyle.  "It strikes me as the absurdest notion that
the Englishman can't see a joke.  To the mind that is accustomed to snap
judgments I have no doubt the Englishman appears to be dull of
apprehension, but the philosophy of the whole matter is apparent to the
mind that takes the trouble to investigate.  The Briton weighs everything
carefully before he commits himself, and even though a certain point may
strike him as funny, he isn't going to laugh until he has fully made up
his mind that it is funny.  I remember once riding down Piccadilly with
Froude in a hansom cab.  Froude had a copy of _Punch_ in his hand, and he
began to laugh immoderately over something.  I leaned over his shoulder
to see what he was laughing at.  'That isn't so funny,' said I, as I read
the paragraph on which his eye was resting.  'No,' said Froude.  'I
wasn't laughing at that.  I was enjoying the joke that appeared in the
same relative position in last week's issue.'  Now that's the point--the
whole point.  The Englishman always laughs over last week's _Punch_, not
this week's, and that is why you will find a file of that interesting
journal in the home of all well-to-do Britons.  It is the back number
that amuses him--which merely proves that he is a deliberative person who
weighs even his humor carefully before giving way to his emotions."

"What is the average weight of a copy of _Punch_?" drawled Artemas Ward,
who had strolled in during the latter part of the conversation.

Shakespeare snickered quietly, but Carlyle and Johnson looked upon the
intruder severely.

"We will take that question into consideration," said Carlyle.  "Perhaps
to-morrow we shall have a definite answer ready for you."

"Never mind," returned the humorist.  "You've proved your point.  Tennyson
tells me you find life here dull, Shakespeare."

"Somewhat," said Shakespeare.  "I don't know about the rest of you
fellows, but I was not cut out for an eternity of ease.  I must have
occupation, and the stage isn't popular here.  The trouble about putting
on a play here is that our managers are afraid of libel suits.  The
chances are that if I should write a play with Cassius as the hero,
Cassius would go to the first night's performance with a dagger concealed
in his toga, with which to punctuate his objections to the lines put in
his mouth.  There is nothing I'd like better than to manage a theatre in
this place, but think of the riots we'd have!  Suppose, for an instant,
that I wrote a play about Bonaparte!  He'd have a box, and when the rest
of you spooks called for the author at the end of the third act, if he
didn't happen to like the play he'd greet me with a salvo of artillery
instead of applause."

"He wouldn't if you made him out a great conqueror from start to finish,"
said Tennyson.

"No doubt," returned Shakespeare, sadly; "but in that event Wellington
would be in the other stage-box, and I'd get the greeting from him."

"Why come out at all?" asked Johnson.

"Why come out at all?" echoed Shakespeare.  "What fun is there in writing
a play if you can't come out and show yourself at the first night?  That's
the author's reward.  If it wasn't for the first-night business, though,
all would be plain sailing."

"Then why don't you begin it the second night?" drawled Ward.

"How the deuce could you?" put in Carlyle.

"A most extraordinary proposition," sneered Johnson.

"Yes," said Ward; "but wait a week--you'll see the point then."

"There isn't any doubt in my mind," said Shakespeare, reverting to his
original proposition, "that the only perfectly satisfactory life is under
a system not yet adopted in either world--the one we have quitted or
this.  There we had hard work in which our mortal limitations hampered us
grievously; here we have the freedom of the immortal with no hard work;
in other words, now that we feel like fighting-cocks, there isn't any
fighting to be done.  The great life in my estimation, would be to return
to earth and battle with mortal problems, but equipped mentally and
physically with immortal weapons."

"Some people don't know when they are well off," said Beau Brummel.  "This
strikes me as being an ideal life.  There are no tailors bills to pay--we
are ourselves nothing but memories, and a memory can clothe himself in
the shadow of his former grandeur--I clothe myself in the remembrance of
my departed clothes, and as my memory is good I flatter myself I'm the
best-dressed man here.  The fact that there are ghosts of departed unpaid
bills haunting my bedside at night doesn't bother me in the least,
because the bailiffs that in the old life lent terror to an overdue
account, thanks to our beneficent system here, are kept in the less
agreeable sections of Hades.  I used to regret that bailiffs were such
low people, but now I rejoice at it.  If they had been of a different
order they might have proven unpleasant here."

"You are right, my dear Brummel," interposed Munchausen.  "This life is
far preferable to that in the other sphere.  Any of you gentlemen who
happen to have had the pleasure of reading my memoirs must have been
struck with the tremendous difficulties that encumbered my progress.  If
I wished for a rare liqueur for my luncheon, a liqueur served only at the
table of an Oriental potentate, more jealous of it than of his one
thousand queens, I had to raise armies, charter ships, and wage warfare
in which feats of incredible valor had to be performed by myself alone
and unaided to secure the desired thimbleful.  I have destroyed empires
for a bon-bon at great expense of nervous energy."

"That's very likely true," said Carlyle.  "I should think your feats of
strength would have wrecked your imagination in time."

"Not so," said Munchausen.  "On the contrary, continuous exercise served
only to make it stronger.  But, as I was going to say, in this life we
have none of these fearful obstacles--it is a life of leisure; and if I
want a bird and a cold bottle at any time, instead of placing my life in
peril and jeopardizing the peace of all mankind to get it, I have only to
summon before me the memory of some previous bird and cold bottle, dine
thereon like a well-ordered citizen, and smoke the spirit of the best
cigar my imagination can conjure up."

"You miss my point," said Shakespeare.  "I don't say this life is worse
or better than the other we used to live.  What I do say is that a
combination of both would suit me.  In short, I'd like to live here and
go to the other world every day to business, like a suburban resident who
sleeps in the country and makes his living in the city.  For instance,
why shouldn't I dwell here and go to London every day, hire an office
there, and put out a sign something like this:

   WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
   DRAMATIST

   Plays written while you wait

I guess I'd find plenty to do."

"Guess again," said Tennyson.  "My dear boy, you forget one thing.  _You
are out of date_.  People don't go to the theatres to hear _you_, they go
to see the people who _do_ you."

"That is true," said Ward.  "And they do do you, my beloved William.  It's
a wonder to me you are not dizzy turning over in your grave the way they
do you."

"Can it be that I can ever be out of date?" asked Shakespeare.  "I know,
of course, that I have to be adapted at times; but to be wholly out of
date strikes me as a hard fate."

"You're not out of date," interposed Carlyle; "the date is out of you.
There is a great demand for Shakespeare in these days, but there isn't
any stuff."

"Then I should succeed," said Shakespeare.

"No, I don't think so," returned Carlyle.  "You couldn't stand the pace.
The world revolves faster to-day than it did in your time--men write
three or four plays at once.  This is what you might call a Type-writer
Age, and to keep up with the procession you'd have to work as you never
worked before."

"That is true," observed Tennyson.  "You'd have to learn to be
ambidextrous, so that you could keep two type-writing machines going at
once; and, to be perfectly frank with you, I cannot even conjure up in my
fancy a picture of you knocking out a tragedy with the right hand on one
machine, while your left hand is fashioning a farce-comedy on another."

"He might do as a great many modern writers do," said Ward; "go in for
the Paper-doll Drama.  Cut the whole thing out with a pair of scissors.
As the poet might have said if he'd been clever enough:

   _Oh, bring me the scissors_,
   _And bring me the glue_,
   _And a couple of dozen old plays_.
   _I'll cut out and paste_
   _A drama for you_
   _That'll run for quite sixty-two days_.

   _Oh, bring me a dress_
   _Made of satin and lace_,
   _And a book--say Joe Miller's--of wit_;
   _And I'll make the old dramatists_
   _Blue in the face_
   _With the play that I'll turn out for it_.

   _So bring me the scissors_,
   _And bring me the paste_,
   _And a dozen fine old comedies_;
   _A fine line of dresses_,
   _And popular taste_
   _I'll make a strong effort to please_.

"You draw a very blue picture, it seems to me," said Shakespeare, sadly.

"Well, it's true," said Carlyle.  "The world isn't at all what it used to
be in any one respect, and you fellows who made great reputations
centuries ago wouldn't have even the ghost of a show now.  I don't
believe Homer could get a poem accepted by a modern magazine, and while
the comic papers are still printing Diogenes' jokes the old gentleman
couldn't make enough out of them in these days to pay taxes on his tub,
let alone earning his bread."

"That is exactly so," said Tennyson.  "I'd be willing to wager too that,
in the line of personal prowess, even D'Artagnan and Athos and Porthos
and Aramis couldn't stand London for one day."

"Or New York either," said Mr. Barnum, who had been an interested
listener.  "A New York policeman could have managed that quartet with one
hand."

"Then," said Shakespeare, "in the opinion of you gentlemen, we old-time
lions would appear to modern eyes to be more or less stuffed?"

"That's about the size of it," said Carlyle.

"But you'd draw," said Barnum, his face lighting up with pleasure.  "You'd
drive a five-legged calf to suicide from envy.  If I could take you and
Caesar, and Napoleon Bonaparte and Nero over for one circus season we'd
drive the mint out of business."

"There's your chance, William," said Ward.  "You write a play for
Bonaparte and Caesar, and let Nero take his fiddle and be the orchestra.
Under Barnum's management you'd get enough activity in one season to last
you through all eternity."

"You can count on me," said Barnum, rising.  "Let me know when you've got
your plan laid out.  I'd stay and make a contract with you now, but Adam
has promised to give me points on the management of wild animals without
cages, so I can't wait.  By-by."

"Humph!" said Shakespeare, as the eminent showman passed out.  "That's a
gay proposition.  When monkeys move in polite society William Shakespeare
will make a side-show of himself for a circus."

"They do now," said Thackeray, quietly.

Which merely proved that Shakespeare did not mean what he said; for in
spite of Thackeray's insinuation as to the monkeys and polite society, he
has not yet accepted the Barnum proposition, though there can be no doubt
of its value from the point of view of a circus manager.




CHAPTER IX: AS TO COOKERY AND SCULPTURE


Robert Burns and Homer were seated at a small table in the dining-room of
the house-boat, discussing everything in general and the shade of a very
excellent luncheon in particular.

"We are in great luck to-day," said Burns, as he cut a ruddy duck in
twain.  "This bird is done just right."

"I agree with you," returned Homer, drawing his chair a trifle closer to
the table.  "Compared to the one we had here last Thursday, this is a
feast for the gods.  I wonder who it was that cooked this fowl
originally?"

"I give it up; but I suspect it was done by some man who knew his
business," said Burns, with a smack of his lips.  "It's a pity, I think,
my dear Homer, that there is no means by which a cook may become
immortal.  Cooking is as much of an art as is the writing of poetry, and
just as there are immortal poets so there should be immortal cooks.  See
what an advantage the poet has--he writes something, it goes out and
reaches the inmost soul of the man who reads it, and it is signed.  His
work is known because he puts his name to it; but this poor devil of a
cook--where is he?  He has done his work as well as the poet ever did
his, it has reached the inmost soul of the mortal who originally ate it,
but he cannot get the glory of it because he cannot put his name to it.
If the cook could sign his work it would be different."

"You have hit upon a great truth," said Homer, nodding, as he sometimes
was wont to do.  "And yet I fear that, ingenious as we are, we cannot
devise a plan to remedy the matter.  I do not know about you, but I
should myself much object if my birds and my flapjacks, and other things,
digestible and otherwise, that I eat here were served with the cook's
name written upon them.  An omelette is sometimes a picture--"

"I've seen omelettes that looked like one of Turner's sunsets,"
acquiesced Burns.

"Precisely; and when Turner puts down in one corner of his canvas,
'Turner, fecit,' you do not object, but if the cook did that with the
omelette you wouldn't like it."

"No," said Burns; "but he might fasten a tag to it, with his name written
upon that."

"That is so," said Homer; "but the result in the end would be the same.
The tags would get lost, or perhaps a careless waiter, dropping a tray
full of dainties, would get the tags of a good and bad cook mixed in
trying to restore the contents of the tray to their previous condition.
The tag system would fail."

"There is but one other way that I can think of," said Burns, "and that
would do no good now unless we can convey our ideas into the other world;
that is, for a great poet to lend his genius to the great cook, and make
the latter's name immortal by putting it into a poem.  Say, for instance,
that you had eaten a fine bit of terrapin, done to the most exquisite
point--you could have asked the cook's name, and written an apostrophe to
her.  Something like this, for instance:

   _Oh, Dinah Rudd! oh, Dinah Rudd_!
   _Thou art a cook of bluest blood_!
   _Nowhere within_
   _This world of sin_
   _Have I e'er tasted better terrapin_.
   _Do you see_?"

"I do; but even then, my dear fellow, the cook would fall short of true
fame.  Her excellence would be a mere matter of hearsay evidence," said
Homer.

"Not if you went on to describe, in a keenly analytical manner, the
virtues of that particular bit of terrapin," said Burns.  "Draw so vivid
a picture of the dish that the reader himself would taste that terrapin
even as you tasted it."

"You have hit it!" cried Homer, enthusiastically.  "It is a grand plan;
but how to introduce it--that is the question."

"We can haunt some modern poet, and give him the idea in that way,"
suggested Burns.  "He will see the novelty of it, and will possibly
disseminate the idea as we wish it to be disseminated."

"Done!" said Homer.  "I'll begin right away.  I feel like haunting to-
night.  I'm getting to be a pretty old ghost, but I'll never lose my love
of haunting."

At this point, as Homer spoke, a fine-looking spirit entered the room,
and took a seat at the head of the long table at which the regular club
dinner was nightly served.

"Why, bless me!" said Homer, his face lighting up with pleasure.  "Why,
Phidias, is that you?"

"I think so," said the new-comer, wearily; "at any rate, it's all that's
left of me."

"Come over here and lunch with us," said Homer.  "You know Burns, don't
you?"

"Haven't the pleasure," said Phidias.

The poet and the sculptor were introduced, after which Phidias seated
himself at Homer's side.

"Are you any relation to Burns the poet?" the former asked, addressing
the Scotchman.

"I _am_ Burns the poet," replied the other.

"You don't look much like your statues," said Phidias, scanning his face
critically.

"No, thank the Fates!" said Burns, warmly.  "If I did, I'd commit
suicide."

"Why don't you sue the sculptors for libel?" asked Phidias.

"You speak with a great deal of feeling, Phidias," said Homer, gravely.
"Have they done anything to hurt you?"

"They have," said Phidias.  "I have just returned from a tour of the
world.  I have seen the things they call sculpture in these degenerate
days, and I must confess--who shouldn't, perhaps--that I could have done
better work with a baseball-bat for a chisel and putty for the raw
material."

"I think I could do good work with a baseball-bat too," said Burns; "but
as for the raw material, give me the heads of the men who have sculped me
to work on.  I'd leave them so that they'd look like some of your
Parthenon frieze figures with the noses gone."

"You are a vindictive creature," said Homer.  "These men you criticise,
and whose heads you wish to sculp with a baseball-bat, have done more for
you than you ever did for them.  Every statue of you these men have made
is a standing advertisement of your books, and it hasn't cost you a
penny.  There isn't a doubt in my mind that if it were not for those
statues countless people would go to their graves supposing that the
great Scottish Burns were little rivulets, and not a poet.  What
difference does it make to you if they haven't made an Adonis of you?  You
never set them an example by making one of yourself.  If there's
deception anywhere, it isn't you that is deceived; it is the mortals.  And
who cares about them or their opinions?"

"I never thought of it in that way," said Burns.  "I hate
caricatures--that is, caricatures of myself.  I enjoy caricatures of
other people, but--"

"You have a great deal of the mortal left in you, considering that you
pose as an immortal," said Homer, interrupting the speaker.

"Well, so have I," said Phidias, resolved to stand by Burns in the
argument, "and I'm sorry for the man who hasn't.  I was a mortal once,
and I'm glad of it.  I had a good time, and I don't care who knows it.
When I look about me and see Jupiter, the arch-snob of creation, and
Mars, a little tin warrior who couldn't have fought a soldier like
Napoleon, with all his alleged divinity, I thank the Fates that they
enabled me to achieve immortality through mortal effort.  Hang hereditary
greatness, I say.  These men were born immortals.  You and I worked for
it and got it.  We know what it cost.  It was ours because we earned it,
and not because we were born to it.  Eh, Burns?"

The Scotchman nodded assent, and the Greek sculptor went on.

"I am not vindictive myself, Homer," he said.  "Nobody has hurt me, and,
on the whole, I don't think sculpture is in such a bad way, after all.
There's a shoemaker I wot of in the mortal realms who can turn the
prettiest last you ever saw; and I encountered a carver in a London
eating-house last month who turned out a slice of beef that was cut as
artistically as I could have done it myself.  What I object to chiefly is
the tendency of the times.  This is an electrical age, and men in my old
profession aren't content to turn out one _chef-d'oeuvre_ in a lifetime.
They take orders by the gross.  I waited upon inspiration.  To-day the
sculptor waits upon custom, and an artist will make a bust of anybody in
any material desired as long as he is sure of getting his pay afterwards.
I saw a life-size statue of the inventor of a new kind of lard the other
day, and what do you suppose the material was?  Gold?  Not by a great
deal.  Ivory?  Marble, even?  Not a bit of it.  He was done in lard, sir.
I have seen a woman's head done in butter, too, and it makes me
distinctly weary to think that my art should be brought so low."

"You did your best work in Greece," chuckled Homer.

"A bad joke, my dear Homer," retorted Phidias.  "I thought sculpture was
getting down to a pretty low ebb when I had to fashion friezes out of
marble; but marble is more precious than rubies alongside of butter and
lard."

"Each has its uses," said Homer.  "I'd rather have butter on my bread
than marble, but I must confess that for sculpture it is very poor stuff,
as you say."

"It is indeed," said Phidias.  "For practice it's all right to use
butter, but for exhibition purposes--bah!"

Here Phidias, to show his contempt for butter as raw material in
sculpture, seized a wooden toothpick, and with it modelled a beautiful
head of Minerva out of the pat that stood upon the small plate at his
side, and before Burns could interfere had spread the chaste figure as
thinly as he could upon a piece of bread, which he tossed to the shade of
a hungry dog that stood yelping on the river-bank.

"Heavens!" cried Burns.  "Imperious Caesar dead and turned to bricks is
as nothing to a Minerva carved by Phidias used to stay the hunger of a
ravening cur."

"Well, it's the way I feel," said Phidias, savagely.

"I think you are a trifle foolish to be so eternally vexed about it,"
said Homer, soothingly.  "Of course you feel badly, but, after all,
what's the use?  You must know that the mortals would pay more for one of
your statues than they would for a specimen of any modern sculptor's art;
yes, even if yours were modelled in wine-jelly and the other fellow's in
pure gold.  So why repine?"

"You'd feel the same way if poets did a similarly vulgar thing," retorted
Phidias; "you know you would.  If you should hear of a poet to-day
writing a poem on a thin layer of lard or butter, you would yourself be
the first to call a halt."

"No, I shouldn't," said Homer, quietly; "in fact, I wish the poets would
do that.  We'd have fewer bad poems to read; and that's the way you
should look at it.  I venture to say that if this modern plan of making
busts and friezes in butter had been adopted at an earlier period, the
public places in our great cities and our national Walhallas would seem
less like repositories of comic art, since the first critical rays of a
warm sun would have reduced the carven atrocities therein to a spot on
the pavement.  The butter school of sculpture has its advantages, my boy,
and you should be crowning the inventor of the system with laurel, and
not heaping coals of fire upon his brow."

"That," said Burns, "is, after all, the solid truth, Phidias.  Take the
brass caricatures of me, for instance.  Where would they be now if they
had been cast in lard instead of in bronze?"

Phidias was silent a moment.

"Well," he said, finally, as the value of the plan dawned upon his mind,
"from that point of view I don't know but what you are right, after all;
and, to show that I have spoken in no vindictive spirit, let me propose a
toast.  Here's to the Butter Sculptors.  May their butter never give
out."

The toast was drained to the dregs, and Phidias went home feeling a
little better.




CHAPTER X: STORY-TELLERS' NIGHT


It was Story-tellers' Night at the house-boat, and the best talkers of
Hades were impressed into the service.  Doctor Johnson was made chairman
of the evening.

"Put him in the chair," said Raleigh.  "That's the only way to keep him
from telling a story himself.  If he starts in on a tale he'll make it a
serial sure as fate, but if you make him the medium through which other
story-tellers are introduced to the club he'll be finely epigrammatic.  He
can be very short and sharp when he's talking about somebody else.
Personality is his forte."

"Great scheme," said Diogenes, who was chairman of the entertainment
committee.  "The nights over here are long, but if Johnson started on a
story they'd have to reach twice around eternity and halfway back to give
him time to finish all he had to say."

"He's not very witty, in my judgment," said Carlyle, who since his
arrival in the other world has manifested some jealousy of Solomon and
Doctor Johnson.

"That's true enough," said Raleigh; "but he's strong, and he's bound to
say something that will put the audience in sympathy with the man that he
introduces, and that's half the success of a Story-tellers' Night.  I've
told stories myself.  If your audience doesn't sympathize with you you'd
be better off at home putting the baby to bed."

And so it happened.  Doctor Johnson was made chairman, and the evening
came.  The Doctor was in great form.  A list of the story-tellers had
been sent him in advance, and he was prepared.  The audience was about as
select a one as can be found in Hades.  The doors were thrown open to the
friends of the members, and the smoke-furnace had been filled with a very
superior quality of Arcadian mixture which Scott had brought back from a
haunting-trip to the home of "The Little Minister," at Thrums.

"Friends and fellow-spooks," the Doctor began, when all were seated on
the visionary camp-stools--which, by the way, are far superior to those
in use in a world of realities, because they do not creak in the midst of
a fine point demanding absolute silence for appreciation--"I do not know
why I have been chosen to preside over this gathering of phantoms; it is
the province of the presiding officer on occasions of this sort to say
pleasant things, which he does not necessarily endorse, about the sundry
persons who are to do the story-telling.  Now, I suppose you all know me
pretty well by this time.  If there is anybody who doesn't, I'll be glad
to have him presented after the formal work of the evening is over, and
if I don't like him I'll tell him so.  You know that if I can be counted
upon for any one thing it is candor, and if I hurt the feelings of any of
these individuals whom I introduce to-night, I want them distinctly to
understand that it is not because I love them less, but that I love truth
more.  With this--ah--blanket apology, as it were, to cover all possible
emergencies that may arise during the evening, I will begin.  The first
speaker on the programme, I regret to observe, is my friend Goldsmith.
Affairs of this kind ought to begin with a snap, and while Oliver is a
most excellent writer, as a speaker he is a pebbleless Demosthenes.  If I
had had the arrangement of the programme I should have had Goldsmith tell
his story while the rest of us were down-stairs at supper.  However, we
must abide by our programme, which is unconscionably long, for otherwise
we will never get through it.  Those of you who agree with me as to the
pleasure of listening to my friend Goldsmith will do well to join me in
the grill-room while he is speaking, where, I understand, there is a very
fine line of punches ready to be served.  Modest Noll, will you kindly
inflict yourself upon the gathering, and send me word when you get
through, if you ever do, so that I may return and present number two to
the assembly, whoever or whatever he may be?"

With these words the Doctor retired, and poor Goldsmith, pale with fear,
rose up to speak.  It was evident that he was quite as doubtful of his
ability as a talker as was Johnson.

"I'm not much of a talker, or, as some say, speaker," he said.  "Talking
is not my forte, as Doctor Johnson has told you, and I am therefore not
much at it.  Speaking is not in my line.  I cannot speak or talk, as it
were, because I am not particularly ready at the making of a speech, due
partly to the fact that I am not much of a talker anyhow, and seldom if
ever speak.  I will therefore not bore you by attempting to speak, since
a speech by one who like myself is, as you are possibly aware, not a
fluent nor indeed in any sense an eloquent speaker, is apt to be a bore
to those who will be kind enough to listen to my remarks, but will read
instead the first five chapters of the _Vicar of Wakefield_."

"Who suggested any such night as this, anyhow?" growled Carlyle.  "Five
chapters of the _Vicar of Wakefield_ for a starter!  Lord save us, we'll
need a Vicar of Sleepfield if he's allowed to do this!"

"I move we adjourn," said Darwin.

"Can't something be done to keep these younger members quiet?" asked
Solomon, frowning upon Carlyle and Darwin.

"Yes," said Douglas Jerrold.  "Let Goldsmith go on.  He'll have them
asleep in ten minutes."

Meanwhile, Goldsmith was plodding earnestly through his stint, utterly
and happily oblivious of the effect he was having upon his audience.

"This is awful," whispered Wellington to Bonaparte.

"Worse than Waterloo," replied the ex-Emperor, with a grin; "but we can
stop it in a minute.  Artemas Ward told me once how a camp-meeting he
attended in the West broke up to go outside and see a dog-fight.  Can't
you and I pretend to quarrel?  A personal assault by you on me will wake
these people up and discombobulate Goldsmith.  Say the word--only don't
hit too hard."

"I'm with you," said Wellington.  Whereupon, with a great show of heat,
he roared out, "You?  Never!  I'm more afraid of a boy with a
bean-snapper that I ever was of you!" and followed up his remark by
pulling Bonaparte's camp-chair from under him, and letting the conqueror
of Austerlitz fall to the floor with a thud which I have since heard
described as dull and sickening.

The effect was instantaneous.  Compared to a personal encounter between
the two great figures of Waterloo, a reading from his own works by
Goldsmith seemed lacking in the elements essential to the holding of an
audience.  Consequently, attention was centred in the belligerent
warriors, and, by some odd mistake, when a peace-loving member of the
assemblage, realizing the indecorousness of the incident, cried out, "Put
him out! put him out!" the attendants rushed in, and, taking poor
Goldsmith by his collar, hustled him out through the door, across the
deck, and tossed him ashore without reference to the gang-plank.  This
accomplished, a personal explanation of their course was made by the
quarrelling generals, and, peace having been restored, a committee was
sent in search of Goldsmith with suitable apologies.  The good and kindly
soul returned, but having lost his book in the melee, much to his own
gratification, as well as to that of the audience, he was permitted to
rest in quiet the balance of the evening.

"Is he through?" said Johnson, poking his head in at the door when order
was restored.

"Yes, sir," said Boswell; "that is to say, he has retired permanently
from the field.  He didn't finish, though."

"Fellow-spooks," began Johnson once more, "now that you have been
delighted with the honeyed eloquence of the last speaker, it is my
privilege to present to you that eminent fabulist Baron Munchausen, the
greatest unrealist of all time, who will give you an exhibition of his
paradoxical power of lying while standing."

The applause which greeted the Baron was deafening.  He was, beyond all
doubt, one of the most popular members of the club.

"Speaking of whales," said he, leaning gracefully against the table.

"Nobody has mentioned 'em," said Johnson.

"True," retorted the Baron; "but you always suggest them by your
apparently unquenchable thirst for spouting--speaking of whales, my
friend Jonah, as well as the rest of you, may be interested to know that
I once had an experience similar to his own, and, strange to say, with
the identical whale."

Jonah arose from his seat in the back of the room.  "I do not wish to be
unpleasant," he said, with a strong effort to be calm, "but I wish to ask
if Judge Blackstone is in the room."

"I am," said the Judge, rising.  "What can I do for you?"

"I desire to apply for an injunction restraining the Baron from using my
whale in his story.  That whale, your honor, is copyrighted," said Jonah.
"If I had any other claim to the affection of mankind than the one which
is based on my experience with that leviathan, I would willingly permit
the Baron to introduce him into his story; but that whale, your honor, is
my stock in trade--he is my all."

"I think Jonah's point is well taken," said Blackstone, turning to the
Baron.  "It would be a distinct hardship, I think, if the plaintiff in
this action were to be deprived of the exclusive use of his sole
accessory.  The injunction prayed for is therefore granted.  The court
would suggest, however, that the Baron continue with his story, using
another whale for the purpose."

"It is impossible," said Munchausen, gloomily.  "The whole point of the
story depends upon its having been Jonah's whale.  Under the
circumstances, the only thing I can do is to sit down.  I regret the
narrowness of mind exhibited by my friend Jonah, but I must respect the
decision of the court."

"I must take exception to the Baron's allusion to my narrowness of mind,"
said Jonah, with some show of heat.  "I am simply defending my rights,
and I intend to continue to do so if the whole world unites in
considering my mind a mere slot scarcely wide enough for the insertion of
a nickel.  That whale was my discovery, and the personal discomfort I
endured in perfecting my experience was such that I resolved to rest my
reputation upon his broad proportions only--to sink or swim with him--and
I cannot at this late day permit another to crowd me out of his exclusive
use."

Jonah sat down and fanned himself, and the Baron, with a look of disgust
on his face, left the room.

"Up to his old tricks," he growled as he went.  "He queers everything he
goes into.  If I'd known he was a member of this club I'd never have
joined."

"We do not appear to be progressing very rapidly," said Doctor Johnson,
rising.  "So far we have made two efforts to have stories told, and have
met with disaster each time.  I don't know but what you are to be
congratulated, however, on your escape.  Very few of you, I observe, have
as yet fallen asleep.  The next number on the programme, I see, is
Boswell, who was to have entertained you with a few reminiscences; I say
was to have done so, because he is not to do so."

"I'm ready," said Boswell, rising.

"No doubt," retorted Johnson, severely, "but I am not.  You are a man
with one subject--myself.  I admit it's a good subject, but you are not
the man to treat of it--here.  You may suffice for mortals, but here it
is different.  I can speak for myself.  You can go out and sit on the
banks of the Vitriol Reservoir and lecture to the imps if you want to,
but when it comes to reminiscences of me I'm on deck myself, and I
flatter myself I remember what I said and did more accurately than you
do.  Therefore, gentlemen, instead of listening to Boswell at this point,
you will kindly excuse him and listen to me.  Ahem!  When I was a boy--"

"Excuse me," said Solomon, rising; "about how long is this--ah--this
entertaining discourse of yours to continue?"

"Until I get through," returned Johnson, wrathfully.

"Are you aware, sir, that I am on the programme?" asked Solomon.

"I am," said the Doctor.  "With that in mind, for the sake of our fellow-
spooks who are present, I am very much inclined to keep on forever.  When
I was a boy--"

Carlyle rose up at this point.

"I should like to ask," he said, mildly, "if this is supposed to be an
audience of children?  I, for one, have no wish to listen to the juvenile
stories of Doctor Johnson.  Furthermore, I have come here particularly to-
night to hear Boswell.  I want to compare him with Froude.  I therefore
protest against--"

"There is a roof to this house-boat," said Doctor Johnson.  "If Mr.
Carlyle will retire to the roof with Boswell I have no doubt he can be
accommodated.  As for Solomon's interruption, I can afford to pass that
over with the silent contempt it deserves, though I may add with
propriety that I consider his most famous proverbs the most absurd bits
of hack-work I ever encountered; and as for that story about dividing a
baby between two mothers by splitting it in two, it was grossly inhuman
unless the baby was twins.  When I was a boy--"

As the Doctor proceeded, Carlyle and Solomon, accompanied by the now
angry Boswell, left the room, and my account of the Story-tellers' Night
must perforce stop; because, though I have never heretofore confessed it,
all my information concerning the house-boat on the Styx has been derived
from the memoranda of Boswell.  It may be interesting to the reader to
learn, however, that, according to Boswell's account, the Story-tellers'
Night was never finished; but whether this means that it broke up
immediately afterwards in a riot, or that Doctor Johnson is still at work
detailing his reminiscences, I am not aware, and I cannot at the moment
of writing ascertain, for Boswell, when I have the pleasure of meeting
him, invariably avoids the subject.




CHAPTER XI: AS TO SAURIANS AND OTHERS


It was Noah who spoke.

"I'm glad," he said, "that when I embarked at the time of the heavy rains
that did so much damage in the old days, there weren't any dogs like that
fellow Cerberus about.  If I'd had to feed a lot of three-headed beasts
like him the Ark would have run short of provisions inside of ten days."

"That's very likely true," observed Mr. Barnum; "but I must confess, my
dear Noah, that you showed a lamentable lack of the showman's instinct
when you selected the animals you did.  A more commonplace lot of beasts
were never gathered together, and while Adam is held responsible for the
introduction of sin into the world, I attribute most of my offences to
none other than yourself."

The members of the club drew their chairs a little closer.  The
conversation had opened a trifle spicily, and, furthermore, they had
retained enough of their mortality to be interested in animal stories.
Adam, who had managed to settle his back dues and delinquent
house-charges, and once more acquired the privileges of the club, nodded
his head gratefully at Mr. Barnum.

"I'm glad to find some one," said he, "who places the responsibility for
trouble where it belongs.  I'm round-shouldered with the blame I've had
to bear.  I didn't invent sin any more than I invented the telephone, and
I think it's rather rough on a fellow who lived a quiet, retiring,
pastoral life, minding his own business and staying home nights, to be
held up to public reprobation for as long a time as I have."

"It'll be all right in time," said Raleigh; "just wait--be patient, and
your vindication will come.  Nobody thought much of the plays Bacon and I
wrote for Shakespeare until Shakespeare 'd been dead a century."

"Humph!" said Adam, gloomily.  "Wait!  What have I been doing all this
time?  I've waited all the time there's been so far, and until Mr. Barnum
spoke as he did I haven't observed the slightest inclination on the part
of anybody to rehabilitate my lost reputation.  Nor do I see exactly how
it's to come about even if I do wait."

"You might apply for an investigating committee to look into the
charges," suggested an American politician, just over.  "Get your friends
on it, and you'll be all right."

"Better let sleeping dogs lie," said Blackstone.

"I intend to," said Adam.  "The fact is, I hate to give any further
publicity to the matter.  Even if I did bring the case into court and sue
for libel, I've only got one witness to prove my innocence, and that's my
wife.  I'm not going to drag her into it.  She's got nervous prostration
over her position as it is, and this would make it worse.  Queen
Elizabeth and the rest of these snobs in society won't invite her to any
of their functions because they say she hadn't any grandfather; and even
if she were received by them, she'd be uncomfortable going about.  It
isn't pleasant for a woman to feel that every one knows she's the oldest
woman in the room."

"Well, take my word for it," said Raleigh, kindly.  "It'll all come out
all right.  You know the old saying, 'History repeats itself.'  Some day
you will be living back in Eden again, and if you are only careful to
make an exact record of all you do, and have a notary present, before
whom you can make an affidavit as to the facts, you will be able to
demonstrate your innocence."

"I was only condemned on hearsay evidence, anyhow," said Adam, ruefully.

"Nonsense; you were caught red-handed," said Noah; "my grandfather told
me so.  And now that I've got a chance to slip in a word edgewise, I'd
like mightily to have you explain your statement, Mr. Barnum, that I am
responsible for your errors.  That is a serious charge to bring against a
man of my reputation."

"I mean simply this: that to make a show interesting," said Mr. Barnum,
"a man has got to provide interesting materials, that's all.  I do not
mean to say a word that is in any way derogatory to your morality.  You
were a surprisingly good man for a sea-captain, and with the exception of
that one occasion when you--ah--you allowed yourself to be stranded on
the bar, if I may so put it, I know of nothing to be said against you as
a moral, temperate person."

"That was only an accident," said Noah, reddening.  "You can't expect a
man six hundred odd years of age--"

"Certainly not," said Raleigh, soothingly, "and nobody thinks less of you
for it.  Considering how you must have hated the sight of water, the
wonder of it is that it didn't become a fixed habit.  Let us hear what it
is that Mr. Barnum does criticise in you."

"His taste, that's all," said Mr. Barnum.  "I contend that, compared to
the animals he might have had, the ones he did have were as ant-hills to
Alps.  There were more magnificent zoos allowed to die out through Noah's
lack of judgment than one likes to think of.  Take the Proterosaurus, for
instance.  Where on earth do we find his equal to-day?"

"You ought to be mighty glad you can't find one like him," put in Adam.
"If you'd spent a week in the Garden of Eden with me, with lizards eight
feet long dropping out of the trees on to your lap while you were trying
to take a Sunday-afternoon nap, you'd be willing to dispense with things
of that sort for the balance of your natural life.  If you want to get an
idea of that experience let somebody drop a calf on you some afternoon."

"I am not saying anything about that," returned Barnum.  "It would be
unpleasant to have an elephant drop on one after the fashion of which you
speak, but I am glad the elephant was saved just the same.  I haven't
advocated the Proterosaurus as a Sunday-afternoon surprise, but as an
attraction for a show.  I still maintain that a lizard as big as a cow
would prove a lodestone, the drawing powers of which the pocket-money of
the small boy would be utterly unable to resist.  Then there was the
Iguanadon.  He'd have brought a fortune to the box-office--"

"Which you'd have immediately lost," retorted Noah, "paying rent.  When
you get a reptile of his size, that reaches thirty feet up into the air
when he stands on his hind-legs, the ordinary circus wagon of commerce
can't be made to hold him, and your menagerie-room has to have ceilings
so high that every penny he brought to the box-office would be spent
storing him."

"Mischievous, too," said Adam, "that Iguanadon.  You couldn't keep
anything out of his reach.  We used to forbid animals of his kind to
enter the garden, but that didn't bother him; he'd stand up on his hind-
legs and reach over and steal anything he'd happen to want."

"I could have used him for a fire-escape," said Mr. Barnum; "and as for
my inability to provide him with quarters, I'd have met that problem
after a short while.  I've always lamented the absence, too, of the
Megalosaurus--"

"Which simply shows how ignorant you are," retorted Noah.  "Why, my dear
fellow, it would have taken the whole of an ordinary zoo such as yours to
give the Megalosaurus a lunch.  Those fellows would eat a rhinoceros as
easily as you'd crack a peanut.  I did have a couple of Megalosaurians on
my boat for just twenty-four hours, and then I chucked them both
overboard.  If I'd kept them ten days longer they'd have eaten every
blessed beast I had with me, and your Zoo wouldn't have had anything else
but Megalosaurians."

"Papa is right about that, Mr. Barnum," said Shem.  "The whole Saurian
tribe was a fearful nuisance.  About four hundred years before the flood
I had a pet Creosaurus that I kept in our barn.  He was a cunning little
devil--full of tricks, and all that; but we never could keep a cow or a
horse on the place while he was about.  They'd mysteriously disappear,
and we never knew what became of 'em until one morning we surprised Fido
in--"

"Surprised who?" asked Doctor Johnson, scornfully.

"Fido," returned Shem.  "'That was my Creosaurus's name."

"Lord save us!  Fido!" cried Johnson.  "What a name for a Creosaurus!"

"Well, what of it?" asked Shem, angrily.  "You wouldn't have us call a
mastodon like that Fanny, would you, or Tatters?"

"Go on," said Johnson; "I've nothing to say."

"Shall I send for a physician?" put in Boswell, looking anxiously at his
chief, the situation was so extraordinary.

Solomon and Carlyle giggled; and the Doctor having politely requested
Boswell to go to a warmer section of the country, Shem resumed.

"I caught him in the act of swallowing five cows and Ham's favorite
trotter, sulky and all."

Baron Munchausen rose up and left the room.

"If they're going to lie I'm going to get out," he said, as he passed
through the room.

"What became of Fido?" asked Boswell.

"The sulky killed him," returned Shem, innocently.  "He couldn't digest
the wheels."

Noah looked approvingly at his son, and, turning to Barnum, observed,
quietly:

"What he says is true, and I will go further and say that it is my belief
that you would have found the show business impossible if I had taken
that sort of creature aboard.  You'd have got mightily discouraged after
your Antediluvians had chewed up a few dozen steam calliopes, and eaten
every other able-bodied exhibit you had managed to secure.  I'd have
tried to save a couple of Discosaurians if I hadn't supposed they were
able to take care of themselves.  A combination of sea-serpent and
dragon, with a neck twenty-two feet long, it seemed to me, ought to have
been able to ride out any storm or fall of rain; but there I was wrong,
and I am free to admit my error.  It never occurred to me that the sea-
serpents were in any danger, so I let them alone, with the result that I
never saw but one other, and he was only an illusion due to that unhappy
use of stimulants to which, with shocking bad taste, you have chosen to
refer."

"I didn't mean to call up unpleasant memories," said Barnum.  "I never
believed you got half-seas over, anyhow; but, to return to our muttons,
why didn't you hand down a few varieties of the Therium family to
posterity?  There were the Dinotherium and the Megatherium, either one of
which would have knocked spots out of any leopard that ever was made, and
along side of which even my woolly horse would have paled into
insignificance.  That's what I can't understand in your selections; with
Megatheriums to burn, why save leopards and panthers and other such every-
day creatures?"

"What kind of a boat do you suppose I had?" cried Noah.  "Do you imagine
for a moment that she was four miles on the water-line, with a mile and
three-quarters beam?  If I'd had a pair of Dinotheriums in the stern of
that Ark, she'd have tipped up fore and aft, until she'd have looked like
a telegraph-pole in the water, and if I'd put 'em amidships they'd have
had to be wedged in so tightly they couldn't move to keep the vessel
trim.  I didn't go to sea, my friend, for the purpose of being tipped
over in mid-ocean every time one of my cargo wanted to shift his weight
from one leg to the other."

"It was bad enough with the elephants, wasn't it, papa?" said Shem.

"Yes, indeed, my son," returned the patriarch.  "It was bad enough with
the elephants.  We had to shift our ballast half a dozen times a day to
keep the boat from travelling on her beam ends, the elephants moved about
so much; and when we came to the question of provender, it took up about
nine-tenths of our hold to store hay and peanuts enough to keep them
alive and good-tempered.  On the whole, I think it's rather late in the
day, considering the trouble I took to save anything but myself and my
family, to be criticised as I now am.  You ought to be much obliged to me
for saving any animals at all.  Most people in my position would have
built a yacht for themselves and family, and let everything else slide."

"That is quite true," observed Raleigh, with a pacificatory nod at Noah.
"You were eminently unselfish, and while, with Mr. Barnum, I exceedingly
regret that the Saurians and Therii and other tribes were left on the
pier when you sailed, I nevertheless think that you showed most excellent
judgment at the time."

"He was the only man who had any at all, for that matter," suggested
Shem, "and it required all his courage to show it.  Everybody was guying
him.  Sinners stood around the yard all day and every day, criticising
the model; one scoffer pretended he thought her a canal-boat, and asked
how deep the flood was likely to be on the tow-path, and whether we
intended to use mules in shallow water and giraffes in deep; another
asked what time allowance we expected to get in a fifteen-mile run, and
hinted that a year and two months per mile struck him as being the proper
thing--"

"It was far from pleasant," said Noah, tapping his fingers together
reflectively.  "I don't want to go through it again, and if, as Raleigh
suggests, history is likely to repeat herself, I'll sublet the contract
to Barnum here, and let him get the chaff."

"It was all right in the end, though, dad," said Shem.  "We had the great
laugh on 'hoi polloi' the second day out."

"We did, indeed," said Noah.  "When we told 'em we only carried first-
class passengers and had no room for emigrants, they began to see that
the Ark wasn't such an old tub, after all; and a good ninety per cent. of
them would have given ten dollars for a little of that time allowance
they'd been talking to us about for several centuries."

Noah lapsed into a musing silence, and Barnum rose to leave.

"I still wish you'd saved a Discosaurus," he said.  "A creature with a
neck twenty-two feet long would have been a gold mine to me.  He could
have been trained to stand in the ring, and by stretching out his neck
bite the little boys who sneak in under the tent and occupy seats on the
top row."

"Well, for your sake," said Noah, with a smile, "I'm very sorry; but for
my own, I'm quite satisfied with the general results."

And they all agreed that the patriarch had every reason to be pleased
with himself.




CHAPTER XII: THE HOUSE-BOAT DISAPPEARS


Queen Elizabeth, attended by Ophelia and Xanthippe, was walking along the
river-bank.  It was a beautiful autumn day, although, owing to certain
climatic peculiarities of Hades, it seemed more like midsummer.  The
mercury in the club thermometer was nervously clicking against the top of
the crystal tube, and poor Cerberus was having all he could do with his
three mouths snapping up the pestiferous little shades of by-gone gnats
that seemed to take an almost unholy pleasure in alighting upon his
various noses and ears.

Ophelia was doing most of the talking.

"I am sure I have never wished to ride one of them," she said,
positively.  "In the first place, I do not see where the pleasure of it
comes in, and, in the second, it seems to me as if skirts must be
dangerous.  If they should catch in one of the pedals, where would I be?"

"In the hospital shortly, methinks," said Queen Elizabeth.

"Well, I shouldn't wear skirts," snapped Xanthippe.  "If a man's wife
can't borrow some of her husband's clothing to reduce her peril to a
minimum, what is the use of having a husband?  When I take to the
bicycle, which, in spite of all Socrates can say, I fully intend to do, I
shall have a man's wheel, and I shall wear Socrates' old dress-clothes.
If Hades doesn't like it, Hades may suffer."

"I don't see how Socrates' clothes will help you," observed Ophelia.  "He
wore skirts himself, just like all the other old Greeks.  His toga would
be quite as apt to catch in the gear as your skirts."

Xanthippe looked puzzled for a moment.  It was evident that she had not
thought of the point which Ophelia had brought up--strong-minded ladies
of her kind are apt sometimes to overlook important links in such chains
of evidence as they feel called upon to use in binding themselves to
their rights.

"The women of your day were relieved of that dress problem, at any rate,"
laughed Queen Elizabeth.

"The women of my day," retorted Xanthippe, "in matters of dress were the
equals of their husbands--in my family particularly; now they have lost
their rights, and are made to confine themselves still to garments like
those of yore, while man has arrogated to himself the sole and exclusive
use of sane habiliments.  However, that is apart from the question.  I
was saying that I shall have a man's wheel, and shall wear Socrates' old
dress-clothes to ride it in, if Socrates has to go out and buy an old
dress-suit for the purpose."

The Queen arched her brows and looked inquiringly at Xanthippe for a
moment.

"A magnificent old maid was lost to the world when you married," she
said.  "Feeling as you do about men, my dear Xanthippe, I don't see why
you ever took a husband."

"Humph!" retorted Xanthippe.  "Of course you don't.  You didn't need a
husband.  You were born with something to govern.  I wasn't."

"How about your temper?" suggested Ophelia, meekly.

Xanthippe sniffed frigidly at this remark.

"I never should have gone crazy over a man if I'd remained unmarried
forty thousand years," she retorted, severely.  "I married Socrates
because I loved him and admired his sculpture; but when he gave up
sculpture and became a thinker he simply tried me beyond all endurance,
he was so thoughtless, with the result that, having ventured once or
twice to show my natural resentment, I have been handed down to posterity
as a shrew.  I've never complained, and I don't complain now; but when a
woman is married to a philosopher who is so taken up with his studies
that when he rises in the morning he doesn't look what he is doing, and
goes off to his business in his wife's clothes, I think she is entitled
to a certain amount of sympathy."

"And yet you wish to wear his," persisted Ophelia.

"Turn about is fair-play," said Xanthippe.  "I've suffered so much on his
account that on the principle of averages he deserves to have a little
drop of bitters in his nectar."

"You are simply the victim of man's deceit," said Elizabeth, wishing to
mollify the now angry Xanthippe, who was on the verge of tears.  "I
understood men, fortunately, and so never married.  I knew my father, and
even if I hadn't been a wise enough child to know him, I should not have
wed, because he married enough to last one family for several years."

"You must have had a hard time refusing all those lovely men, though,"
sighed Ophelia.  "Of course, Sir Walter wasn't as handsome as my dear
Hamlet, but he was very fetching."

"I cannot deny that," said Elizabeth, "and I didn't really have the heart
to say no when he asked me; but I did tell him that if he married me I
should not become Mrs. Raleigh, but that he should become King Elizabeth.
He fled to Virginia on the next steamer.  My diplomacy rid me of a very
unpleasant duty."

Chatting thus, the three famous spirits passed slowly along the path
until they came to the sheltered nook in which the house-boat lay at
anchor.

"There's a case in point," said Xanthippe, as the house-boat loomed up
before them.  "All that luxury is for men; we women are not permitted to
cross the gangplank.  Our husbands and brothers and friends go there; the
door closes on them, and they are as completely lost to us as though they
never existed.  We don't know what goes on in there.  Socrates tells me
that their amusements are of a most innocent nature, but how do I know
what he means by that?  Furthermore, it keeps him from home, while I have
to stay at home and be entertained by my sons, whom the Encyclopaedia
Britannica rightly calls dull and fatuous.  In other words, club life for
him, and dulness and fatuity for me."

"I think myself they're rather queer about letting women into that boat,"
said Queen Elizabeth.  "But it isn't Sir Walter's fault.  He told me he
tried to have them establish a Ladies' Day, and that they agreed to do
so, but have since resisted all his efforts to have a date set for the
function."

"It would be great fun to steal in there now, wouldn't it," giggled
Ophelia.  "There doesn't seem to be anybody about to prevent our doing
so."

"That's true," said Xanthippe.  "All the windows are closed, as if there
wasn't a soul there.  I've half a mind to take a peep in at the house."

"I am with you," said Elizabeth, her face lighting up with pleasure.  It
was a great novelty, and an unpleasant one to her, to find some place
where she could not go.  "Let's do it," she added.

So the three women tiptoed softly up the gang-plank, and, silently
boarding the house-boat, peeped in at the windows.  What they saw merely
whetted their curiosity.

"I must see more," cried Elizabeth, rushing around to the door, which
opened at her touch.  Xanthippe and Ophelia followed close on her heels,
and shortly they found themselves, open-mouthed in wondering admiration,
in the billiard-room of the floating palace, and Richard, the ghost of
the best billiard-room attendant in or out of Hades, stood before them.

"Excuse me," he said, very much upset by the sudden apparition of the
ladies.  "I'm very sorry, but ladies are not admitted here."

"We are equally sorry," retorted Elizabeth, assuming her most imperious
manner, "that your masters have seen fit to prohibit our being here; but,
now that we are here, we intend to make the most of the opportunity,
particularly as there seem to be no members about.  What has become of
them all?"

Richard smiled broadly.  "I don't know where they are," he replied; but
it was evident that he was not telling the exact truth.

"Oh, come, my boy," said the Queen, kindly, "you do know.  Sir Walter
told me you knew everything.  Where are they?"

"Well, if you must know, ma'am," returned Richard, captivated by the
Queen's manner, "they've all gone down the river to see a prize-fight
between Goliath and Samson."

"See there!" cried Xanthippe.  "That's what this club makes possible.
Socrates told me he was coming here to take luncheon with Carlyle, and
they've both of 'em gone off to a disgusting prize-fight!"

"Yes, ma'am, they have," said Richard; "and if Goliath wins, I don't
think Mr. Socrates will get home this evening."

"Betting, eh?" said Xanthippe, scornfully.

"Yes, ma'am," returned Richard.

"More club!" cried Xanthippe.

"Oh no, ma'am," said Richard.  "Betting is not allowed in the club;
they're very strict about that.  But the shore is only ten feet off,
ma'am, and the gentlemen always go ashore and make their bets."

During this little colloquy Elizabeth and Ophelia were wandering about,
admiring everything they saw.

"I do wish Lucretia Borgia and Calpurnia could see this.  I wonder if the
Caesars are on the telephone," Elizabeth said.  Investigation showed that
both the Borgias and the Caesars were on the wire, and in short order the
two ladies had been made acquainted with the state of affairs at the
house-boat; and as they were both quite as anxious to see the interior of
the much-talked-of club-house as the others, they were not long in
arriving.  Furthermore, they brought with them half a dozen more ladies,
among whom were Desdemona and Cleopatra, and then began the most
extraordinary session the house-boat ever knew.  A meeting was called,
with Elizabeth in the chair, and all the best ladies of the Stygian
realms were elected members.  Xanthippe, amid the greatest applause,
moved that every male member of the organization be expelled for conduct
unworthy of a gentleman in attending a prize-fight, and encouraging two
such horrible creatures as Goliath and Samson in their nefarious
pursuits.  Desdemona seconded the motion, and it was carried without a
dissenting voice, although Mrs. Caesar, with becoming dignity, merely
smiled approval, not caring to take part too actively in the proceedings.

The men having thus been disposed of in a summary fashion, Richard was
elected Janitor in Charon's place, and the club was entirely reorganized,
with Cleopatra as permanent President.  The meeting then adjourned, and
the invaders set about enjoying their newly acquired privileges.  The
smoking-room was thronged for a few moments, but owing to the
extraordinary strength of the tobacco which the faithful Richard
shovelled into the furnace, it developed no enduring popularity,
Xanthippe, with a suddenly acquired pallor, being the first to renounce
the pastime as revolting.

So fast and furious was the enjoyment of these thirsty souls, so long
deprived of their rights, that night came on without their observing it,
and with the night was brought the great peril into which they were
thrown, and from which at the moment of writing they had not been
extricated, and which, to my regret, has cut me off for the present from
any further information connected with the Associated Shades and their
beautiful lounging-place.  Had they not been so intent upon the inner
beauties of the House-boat on the Styx they might have observed
approaching, under the shadow of the westerly shore, a long, rakish craft
propelled by oars, which dipped softly and silently and with trained
precision in the now jet-black waters of the Styx.  Manning the oars were
a dozen evil-visaged ruffians, while in the stern of the approaching
vessel there sat a grim-faced, weather-beaten spirit, armed to the teeth,
his coat sleeves bearing the skull and cross-bones, the insignia of
piracy.

This boat, stealing up the river like a thief in the night, contained
Captain Kidd and his pirate crew, and their mission was a mission of
vengeance.  To put the matter briefly and plainly, Captain Kidd was
smarting under the indignity which the club had recently put upon him.  He
had been unanimously blackballed, even his proposer and seconder, who had
been browbeaten into nominating him for membership, voting against him.

"I may be a pirate," he cried, when he heard what the club had done, "but
I have feelings, and the Associated Shades will repent their action.  The
time will come when they'll find that I have their club-house, and they
have--its debts."

It was for this purpose that the great terror of the seas had come upon
this, the first favorable opportunity.  Kidd knew that the house-boat was
unguarded; his spies had told him that the members had every one gone to
the fight, and he resolved that the time had come to act.  He did not
know that the Fates had helped to make his vengeance all the more
terrible and withering by putting the most attractive and fashionable
ladies of the Stygian country likewise in his power; but so it was, and
they, poor souls, while this fiend, relentless and cruel, was slowly
approaching, sang on and danced on in blissful unconsciousness of their
peril.

In less than five minutes from the time when his sinister-craft rounded
the bend Kidd and his crew had boarded the house-boat, cut her loose from
her moorings, and in ten minutes she had sailed away into the great
unknown, and with her went some of the most precious gems in the social
diadem of Hades.

The rest of my story is soon told.  The whole country was aroused when
the crime was discovered, but up to the date of this narrative no word
has been received of the missing craft and her precious cargo.  Raleigh
and Caesar have had the seas scoured in search of her, Hamlet has offered
his kingdom for her return, but unavailingly; and the men of Hades were
cast into a gloom from which there seems to be no relief.

Socrates alone was unaffected.

"They'll come back some day, my dear Raleigh," he said, as the knight
buried his face, weeping, in his hands.  "So why repine?  I'll never lose
my Xanthippe--permanently, that is.  I know that, for I am a philosopher,
and I know there is no such thing as luck.  And we can start another
club."

"Very likely," sighed Raleigh, wiping his eyes.  "I don't mind the club
so much, but to think of those poor women--"

"Oh, they're all right," returned Socrates, with a laugh.  "Caesar's wife
is along, and you can't dispute the fact that she's a good chaperon.  Give
the ladies a chance.  They've been after our club for years; now let 'em
have it, and let us hope that they like it.  Order me up a hemlock sour,
and let's drink to their enjoyment of club life."

Which was done, and I, in spirit, drank with them, for I sincerely hope
that the "New Women" of Hades are having a good time.
